UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 20-F
(Mark One)
☐ REGISTRATION STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OR (g) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
OR
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024
OR
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
OR
☐ SHELL COMPANY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934
Date of event requiring this shell company report
For the transition period from to
Commission file number 001-38159
British American Tobacco p.l.c.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
(Translation of Registrant’s name into English)
England and Wales
(Jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
Globe House, 4 Temple Place, London WC2R 2PG, United Kingdom
(Address of principal executive offices)
Caroline Ferland, Company Secretary Tel: +44 (0)20 7845 1000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7240 0555
Globe House, 4 Temple Place, London WC2R 2PG, United Kingdom
(Name, Telephone, E-mail and/or Facsimile number and Address of Company Contact Person)
Securities registered or to be registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act.
Title of each class Trading symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
American Depositary Shares (evidenced by American Depositary Receipts) BTI New York Stock Exchange
each representing one ordinary share
Ordinary shares, nominal value 25 pence per share BTI New York Stock Exchange
5.931% Notes due 2029 BTI29A New York Stock Exchange
6.343% Notes due 2030 BTI30A New York Stock Exchange
6.421% Notes due 2033 BTI33 New York Stock Exchange
7.079% Notes due 2043 BTI43 New York Stock Exchange
7.081% Notes due 2053 BTI53 New York Stock Exchange
7.750% Notes due 2032 BTI32A New York Stock Exchange
4.742% Notes due 2032 BTI32 New York Stock Exchange
5.650% Notes due 2052 BTI52 New York Stock Exchange
4.448% Notes due 2028 BTI28A New York Stock Exchange
2.259% Notes due 2028 BTI28 New York Stock Exchange
2.726% Notes due 2031 BTI31 New York Stock Exchange
3.734% Notes due 2040 BTI40 New York Stock Exchange
3.984% Notes due 2050 BTI50A New York Stock Exchange
1.668% Notes due 2026 BTI26A New York Stock Exchange
4.700% Notes due 2027 BTI27A New York Stock Exchange
4.906% Notes due 2030 BTI30 New York Stock Exchange
5.282% Notes due 2050 BTI50 New York Stock Exchange
2.789% Notes due 2024 BTI24 New York Stock Exchange
3.215% Notes due 2026 BTI26 New York Stock Exchange
3.462% Notes due 2029 BTI29 New York Stock Exchange
4.758% Notes due 2049 BTI49 New York Stock Exchange
3.222% Notes due 2024 BTI24A New York Stock Exchange
3.557% Notes due 2027 BTI27 New York Stock Exchange
4.390% Notes due 2037 BTI37 New York Stock Exchange
4.540% Notes due 2047 BTI47 New York Stock Exchange
* Listed, not for trading, but only in connection with the listing of the applicable Registrant’s American Depositary Shares issued in respect thereof.
Securities registered or to be registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act.
None
Securities for which there is a reporting obligation pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Act.
None
Indicate the number of outstanding shares of each of the issuer’s classes of capital or common stock as of the close of the period covered by the Annual Report.
2,346,057,419 ordinary shares
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. ☒ Yes ☐ No
If this report is an annual or transition report, indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. ☐ Yes ☒ No
Note – Checking the box above will not relieve any registrant required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 from their obligations
under those Sections.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. ☒ Yes ☐ No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T
(§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). ☒ Yes ☐ No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or an emerging growth company. See definition of
“large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer ☒ Accelerated filer ☐
Non-accelerated filer ☐ Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company that prepares its financial statements in accordance with US GAAP, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the
extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards† provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
† The term “new or revised financial accounting standard” refers to any update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board to its Accounting Standards
Codification after April 5, 2012.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial
reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the
correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive based compensation received by any of the
registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark which basis of accounting the registrant has used to prepare the financial statements included in this filing:
US GAAP International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the Other ☐
☐ International Accounting Standards Board ☒
If “Other” has been checked in response to the previous question, indicate by check mark which financial statement item the registrant has elected to follow. ☐ Item 17 ☐
Item 18
If this is an annual report, indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). ☐ Yes ☒ No
Name of the auditor’s firm KPMG LLP
Auditors’ firm ID/ PCAOB issued Audit Firm Identifier 1118
Auditors’ Location – City, State/Province, Country 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
This Annual Report and Accounts on Form 20-F contains forward-looking non-GAAP measures used by management to monitor the
Group’s performance. For the non-GAAP information contained in this Annual Report and Accounts on Form 20-F, no comparable GAAP
or IFRS information is available on a forward-looking basis and our forward-looking revenue and other components of the Group’s results,
including the revenue generated from combustibles, cannot be estimated with reasonable certainty due to, among other things, the
impact of foreign exchange, pricing and volume, which could be significant, are highly variable. As such, no reconciliations for this
forward-looking non-GAAP information are available.
British American Tobacco p.l.c. (No. 3407696) Annual Report 2024. A Better Tomorrow™
This document constitutes the Annual Report and Accounts of
British American Tobacco p.l.c. (the Company) and the British
means Building a
American Tobacco Group prepared in accordance with UK
requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F prepared in
accordance with the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Smokeless World.
Exchange Act) and the rules promulgated thereunder for the year
ended 31 December 2024, except that certain phrases, paragraphs
or similar sections denoted with a ‘@’ symbol do not form part of A Smokeless World built
the Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (the SEC) and certain phrases, paragraphs
on Smokeless products
or similar sections denoted with a ‘»’ symbol do not form part of the
Annual Report and Accounts. In addition, the Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on pages 260 and 261 will only where, ultimately,
be included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F. Moreover, the
information in this document may be updated or supplemented
only for purposes of the Annual Report on Form 20-F at the time of cigarettes have become
filing with the SEC or later amended if necessary. Any such updates,
supplements or amendments will also be denoted with a ‘»’ symbol.
a thing of the past.
Insofar as this document constitutes the Annual Report and
Accounts, it has been prepared and is presented in accordance
with, and reliance upon, applicable English company law and the
liabilities of the Directors in connection with this report shall be A world where smokers
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law. This
document is made up of the Strategic Report, the Governance
have migrated from
Report, the Financial Statements and Notes, and certain other
information. Our Strategic Report, pages 2 to 163, includes our
purpose and strategy, global market overview, business model, cigarettes to smokeless
global performance, as well as our financial performance and
principal Group risks. Our Governance Report on pages 164 to 247
contains detailed corporate governance information and our alternatives.
Committee reports. Our Financial Statements and Notes are on
pages 247 to 388. The Other Information section commences on
page 389. This document provides alternative performance A world where Tobacco
measures (APMs) which are not defined or specified under the
requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
We believe these APMs (which are Non-GAAP measures) provide Harm Reduction is both
readers with important additional information on our business. We
have included a Non-GAAP measures section on pages 395 to 410
understood and accepted.
which provides a comprehensive list of the APMs that we use, an
explanation of how they are calculated, why we use them and a
reconciliation to the most directly comparable IFRS measure where A world where smokers
relevant. British American Tobacco p.l.c. has shares listed on the
London Stock Exchange (BATS), the Johannesburg Stock Exchange
(BTI), and, as American Depositary Shares, on the New York Stock make a switch to better.
Exchange (BTI). The Annual Report is published on bat.com.
A printed copy is mailed to shareholders on the UK main register
who have elected to receive it. Otherwise, shareholders are notified
that the Annual Report is available on the website and will, at the
time of that notification, receive a short Performance Summary
(which sets out an overview of the Group’s performance, headline
facts and figures and key dates in the Company’s financial calendar)
and Proxy Form. Specific local mailing and/or notification
requirements will apply to shareholders on the South Africa branch
register. References in this publication to ‘British American
Tobacco’, ‘BAT’, ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ when denoting opinion
refer to British American Tobacco p.l.c. and when denoting business
activity refer to British American Tobacco p.l.c. and its subsidiaries,
collectively or individually as the case may be, as well as in some
circumstances those who work for them. When denoting business
activity these collective expressions are used for ease of reference
only and do not imply any other relationship between British
American Tobacco p.l.c. and its subsidiaries. The companies in
which British American Tobacco p.l.c. directly and indirectly has an
+ Learn more about how we’re
interest are separate and distinct legal entities. The material in this
Building a Smokeless World
Annual Report and Form 20-F is provided for the purpose of giving
at bat.com/reporting
information about the Company to investors only and is not
intended for general consumers. The Company, its Directors,
employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume
responsibility to any other person to whom this material is shown or
into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability A refined purpose:
is expressly disclaimed. The material in this Annual Report is not The best choice any adult smoker can make will always be quitting
provided for product advertising, promotional or marketing combustible tobacco products completely.
purposes. This material does not constitute and should not be
construed as constituting an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer For the last few years, our aim has been to build A Better Tomorrow™.
to buy, any of our products. Our products are sold only in This has meant working to reduce the health impact of our business by
compliance with the laws of the particular jurisdictions in which offering adult consumers a greater choice of enjoyable and reduced-risk*†
they are sold. References in this document to information on products compared to cigarettes. Now is the time to take a step forward.
websites, including the web address of BAT, have been included as BAT’s New Category products are not smoking cessation devices and are
inactive textual references only. These websites and the information not marketed for that purpose.
contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be
incorporated into or to form part of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
Cautionary statement: This document contains forward-looking * Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking.
These products are not risk free and are addictive.
statements. For our full cautionary statement, see page 447.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject
to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these products without
agency clearance.
In this year’s report
Strategic Report Governance
Overview Dynamic Business Directors’ Report
Our Global Business 2 Strategic Pillar Chair’s Introduction on Governance 164
Our Multi- Overview Board of Directors
Category Portfolio
38
4 166
Capital Efficiency 40
Chair’s Introduction 6 U.S. 42 Management Board 170
Chief Executive’s Overview 8 AME 44 Governance Framework 172
Our Year in Numbers 10 APMEA 46 Board Leadership 173
Introducing Financial Performance Summary 48 Values and Culture 174
OmniTM
Treasury and Cash Flow 55 Board Activities
in 2024
Sustainable Future
Strategic Pillar Overview 60
11 Our Sustainability
Strategy 176
Our Strategy Board Engagement with
Stakeholders 178
Our Strategic
Principal Decisions
Navigator
66 Made by the Board 184
Our Approach to Division
2024 Sustainability Highlights 68 of Responsibilities 185
Tracking Progress 69 Board Effectiveness 187
12 Double Materiality Assessment 70 Nominations Committee 189
Audit Committee 194
Our Business Model 14 Our Five Focus Areas:
Engaging with Our Stakeholders 18 Tobacco Harm Reduction 72
Remuneration Report
Chief Financial Officer’s Overview: Climate 78
Investment Case 20 Annual Statement on Remuneration 205
Nature 86
Chief Financial Officer’s Overview: 2024 Remuneration at a Glance 216
Circularity 94
Our performance 22 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 217
Communities 102
Our Markets and Megatrends 24 Annual Report on Remuneration 227
Sustainability Governance 114 Responsibility of Directors 247
Quality Growth Sustainability Policies, Procedures
and Standards 116
Strategic Pillar Overview 26
Creating a Culture of Integrity 118
Our Vapour
Products TCFD Reporting 120 Financial Statements
TNFD Reporting 137
Group Principal Risks 155 Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm 260
Group Financial Statements 262
28
Group Companies and Undertakings 371
Our Heated Products 30
Our Modern Oral Products 32
Our Traditional Oral Products 34
Other Information
Our Combustible Products 35
Beyond Nicotine 37
Additional Disclosures 389
Shareholder Information 448
Other Information 467
1
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Overview
Our Global Business
Our regional profile maximises opportunities for quality
growth in our sector. Each of our markets is accountable
for its own performance and driving growth.
Our business is divided into three Three Complementary Regions
complementary regions, with a balanced
presence in both high-growth emerging
markets and highly profitable developed
markets.
Our in-depth marketplace analysis delivers
insights on consumer trends and
segmentation, which facilitates our
geographic brand prioritisation across
our regions and markets.
Consumer preferences and technology are
evolving rapidly, and we are staying ahead
of the curve with our digital hubs and
innovation centres. We are also leveraging
the expertise of our external partners
and are looking forward to exciting
results from our venturing initiative,
Btomorrow Ventures.
Revenue by Region
£25,867m
Total revenue
U.S. £11,278m
AME £9,241m
APMEA £5,348m
+ For more key detail on our Regional
Performance, see pages 42 to 47
Note:
Map is accurate as at 31 December 2024 and is representative
of general geographic regions and does not suggest that
the Group operates in each country of every region.
2
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
5 140 3 48,000+
major product employee regions employees
categories nationalities
United States of America (U.S.)
Top Markets:
U.S.
Americas and Europe (AME)
Top Markets:
Combustibles: Brazil, Germany,
Mexico, Romania
HP: Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy,
Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic
Vapour: Canada, France, Germany,
Poland, Spain, the UK
Modern Oral: Denmark, Norway,
Sweden, Switzerland, Poland, the UK
Asia-Pacific, Middle East and
Africa (APMEA)
Top Markets:
Combustibles: Bangladesh, Japan,
Pakistan
HP: Japan, South Korea
Associates and Joint Ventures
Top Markets:
India
+ Read more about our Markets
and Megatrends on page 24 and 25
3
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Overview
Our Multi-Category Portfolio
BAT is a consumer-focused business operating internationally.
Our multi-category approach means we are well placed to
provide adult consumers with products designed for every mood
and moment. Our portfolio reflects our commitment to meeting
the evolving and varied preferences of today’s adult consumers.
Building a Smokeless World via Smokeless products
Revenue by Product Category
Vapour Heated Products
Vapour products contain an e-liquid, Heated Products (HPs) have two
nicotine and flavours, and a battery- main functional parts: a battery-
powered heating element. When powered device and a consumable -
activated, via puff or button, the which contains a plant-based
heating element heats the liquid (tobacco leaf or non-tobacco leaf)
and forms an aerosol, commonly substance that is heated. Once the
known as vapour. consumable has reached the
necessary temperature, it forms
+ Read more on page 28 and 29 an aerosol releasing nicotine
and flavours.
£25,867m + Read more on page 30 and 31
Total revenue
New Categories £3,432m 13.3%
Traditional Oral £1,092m 4.2%
Combustibles £20,685m 80.0% Global Drive Brands Global Drive Brands
Other £658m 2.5%
33
Strategic Portfolio
markets
These are our key brands in both the
combustible and Smokeless*† categories.
where our Heated Products
This ensures focus and investment on the
are currently available
brands and categories that will underpin
the Group’s future performance.
The strategic portfolio is:
Smokeless
All brands within New Categories
(Vapour, Heated Products and Modern
Oral) and the strategic Traditional Oral
brands in moist and snus.
Combustibles
Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall,
Rothmans, Newport (U.S.), Natural 63
American Spirit (U.S.), Camel (U.S.).
markets
Notes: where our
BAT’s New Category products are not smoking cessation
Vapour products
devices and are not marketed for that purpose.
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming are currently
a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These
products are not risk free and are addictive. available
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo,
Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA
regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made
as to these products without agency clearance.
4
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Modern Oral Traditional Oral Combustibles
Modern Oral products are pouches Traditional Oral products include The Group sold 505 billion
which contain high-purity nicotine, snus and snuff. Snus is a moist cigarette sticks and 13 billion
water, and other high-quality form of oral tobacco originating other tobacco products
ingredients. Consumers place the from Sweden. It is available in (stick equivalents) in 2024.
disposable pouch within the mouth, loose form or as pouches. With 37 fully integrated
between the lip and gum. Nicotine With Traditional Oral products, cigarette manufacturing
and flavours are then released and consumers take a single portion facilities in 35 markets, the
absorbed through the inner lining or pouch and place it within the Group operates internationally.
of the mouth. mouth, between the lip and gum. + Read more on page 35 and 36
+ Read more on page 32 and 33 The nicotine and flavours are
then absorbed through the inner
lining of the cheek.
+ Read more on page 34
Global Drive Brands Global Drive Brands Global Drive Brands
44 3
markets markets
where our Modern Oral products where our Traditional Oral
are currently available products are currently available
U.S.-specific
5
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Overview
Chair’s Introduction
In 2024, we saw yet another year
Our corporate purpose is of significant challenges across the
globe, with continued economic and
political volatility.
being lived by thousands of
The impact of these issues was further
exacerbated by high interest rates and
colleagues globally. At the
inflation, alongside persistent cost-of-living
pressures. As a result, major economies
same time, our refined strategy have witnessed changes in consumer
confidence and buying behaviours.
is enabling us to navigate Across our industry we have seen a rapid
evolution of markets, like the U.S., for
transformation with focus, example, where cigarette volumes have
declined at pace as adult consumers seek
out both value-for-money combustible
enhanced execution
products and smokeless alternatives.
However, I believe that when changes and
and resilience.
challenges arise, so do opportunities to
grow, overcome and even thrive.
Transforming with Purpose
As a Board we have a responsibility
to ensure that the Group delivers for
stakeholders. In 2020, we began the
journey of our A Better Tomorrow™
purpose. Four years on and our corporate
purpose is being lived by thousands of
colleagues globally. At the same time, our
Luc Jobin refined strategy is enabling us to navigate
transformation with focus, enhanced
Chair
execution and resilience.
2024 was a year for BAT to build, invest,
innovate and refine for a sustainable future,
and it is crucial that shareholders have a
clear view of the path ahead.
We have invested in bolstering our U.S.
business, and in new product development
and launches across our categories, while
thoughtfully extracting value from our
combustibles franchise. All of this has been
done through the lens of having a better
understanding of adult consumers and our
evolving industry.
It has never been more important to
maintain both momentum and strategic
focus, and I’m confident we will continue
to do just that.
Driving Sustainable Change
Our Combined Annual and Sustainability
Report gives a full view of BAT’s business
strategy and performance. It also outlines
our progress towards our purpose of
A Better Tomorrow™ and reaffirms our
commitment to Building a Smokeless World.
This is the third year that we have
embedded our sustainability data into our
Annual Report. It is also the first year that
we have refined some of our focus areas
from a sustainability perspective,
demonstrating our ongoing efforts to
create a meaningful impact. You can read
more about our refined sustainability
strategy on page 66.
6
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Ultimately our goals have not changed. Building a Smokeless World We continue to carefully review our capital
If anything, we are more acutely focused Our aim to reduce the health impact of allocation to provide value for shareholders
on how we reach them. Meaning how we our business remains prominent, and one and support the growth of BAT.
migrate adult cigarette consumers actively, of the ways in which we are demonstrating Board Changes
s ri u s s k* t † a S in m ab o l k y e a le n s d s r a e l s te p r o n n a s t i i b ve ly s t , o a n re d d uced- o o u u r r s re c s ie o n lv c e e . o n these issues is through I B w en a c s h v i e kh ry t p o l e o a u s r e B d o t a o r d w t e h lc is o y m ea e r S . oraya
importantly, how we measure success.
In doing so, BAT will be well positioned to We took a step forward in October by Soraya joins the Board as Chief Financial
deliver for investors, consumers and wider publishing a series of new industry-leading Officer and Director, and she possesses
stakeholders, while employees can benefit ambitions for our Vapour devices, extensive financial and leadership experience.
supported by evidence-based solutions.
from a purpose-driven business that they I would like to congratulate Soraya on her
‘BAT's Commitment to Responsible
can feel excited about. appointment, and I look forward to her
Vaping Products’ is a comprehensive
Our Values and Culture resource which sets out how we intend contribution. With the breadth of experience
and skills that we have on the Board, I am
A happy and engaged workforce moving to tackle some of the most pressing
confident that our focus on accelerating
in tandem typically leads to better societal concerns.
our strategy will yield results.
performance, productivity and a sense of We believe that growth within the
pride. It is here that our six corporate Smokeless category will be driven by Additionally, Uta Kemmerich-Keil will join
Values and cultural transformation play an sustained investment in our brands and the Board with effect from 17 February
important role, as they contribute to BAT's targeted innovation to respond to the 2025. With her general management
success and strategic delivery. The key evolving tastes of adult consumers. With background in regulated industries and her
is to bring everyone along on the journey, our multi-category portfolio, BAT is well experience in consumer, digital and
so expectations and behaviours are clear, placed to capitalise on this adult consumer strategic transformation, she makes a
along with what needs to be achieved. shift to Smokeless products while strong addition to our Board. Murray
Kessler will step down from the Board with
To be an exciting and winning company continuing to manage the combustible
effect from 17 February 2025 and I would
means being a place where our people are cigarette business responsibly. Together
like to thank him for his contributions and
passionate about what they do and the with active portfolio management, we
wish him well in his new endeavours.
difference they make. It is also about recognise that investing in our brands is
understanding and being invested in fundamental to sustaining BAT's Summary and Outlook
BAT's success. performance for the future. It is encouraging that the outlook for the
year ahead – according to some
economists – is one of cautious optimism.
While it's fair to say that there are still
some clouds on the horizon from a
geopolitical and economic standpoint, our
business has demonstrated time and time
Our six corporate Values and cultural
again that it is resilient. The diverse nature
of our organisation, products, people and
transformation play an important
geographies are our strengths.
Building a sustainable future isn't always
role, as they contribute to BAT's
linear, and that was the priority for BAT
in 2024. Looking ahead to the next few
success and strategic delivery.
years, our efforts will be focused on delivery
and innovation across the markets we
serve globally.
Through continued investment in our
brands and prioritising adult consumers
and their preferences, the Board believes
we are well placed to maximise opportunities
Market Dynamics Dividends and Share Buy-backs
in tobacco and nicotine as consumer
With over one billion adult smokers in the Reflecting the confidence in our business preferences evolve. These markets remain
world, there are many jurisdictions which, and its future prospects, the Board has attractive, and we are confident we have
with the right regulatory approach, could declared a dividend of 240.24p per ordinary the right strategy in place, an exciting and
see smoking rates decline faster through share, payable in four equal instalments of winning culture, and the right people to
greater acceptance of Smokeless products. 60.06p per ordinary share, to shareholders deliver. Progress in these dimensions has
We know that Tobacco Harm Reduction registered on the UK main register or the bolstered our ability to execute consistently
– encouraging smokers who would South Africa branch register and to and sustainably. Tadeu discusses this in
otherwise continue to smoke to switch American Depository Shares (ADS) holders, more detail on page 9.
completely to less risky alternatives*† – is each on the applicable record dates. BAT's Board and leadership team remain
the fastest route to achieving a Smokeless The dividends receivable by ADS holders focused and confident in the Group's ability
World. This is why we’re actively working in US dollars will be calculated based on to deliver long-term, sustainable growth and
with various stakeholders to make this a the exchange rate on the applicable value, while delivering A Better Tomorrow™.
reality. The growth of adult smokers payment dates.
seeking Smokeless alternatives is a long- Further information on dividends can
term, sectoral trend. be found on page 54 of the Financial
In many countries, the challenges presented Performance Summary and page 449
by illicit trade continue to persist across in the Shareholder Information section.
the industry. This is a problem for both As part of our active capital allocation, in
combustibles and New Category products, March we launched a programme to buy
intensified by increasing costs in regions back BAT ordinary shares worth £1.6 billion
across the world. We believe more using proceeds from a partial share disposal
appropriate regulation and enforcement of the Group’s shareholding in ITC Limited Notes:
is needed to tackle these issues, and we (ITC). The first tranche of the programme * B a a c s o e m d p o le n t t e h s e w w it e c ig h h f t r o o m f e c v i i g d a e r n e c t e te a s n m d o a k s i s n u g m . T in h g e se
welcome signs of increasing action. saw the buy-back of BAT ordinary shares products are not risk free and are addictive.
for a total amount of £700 million in 2024, † Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo,
Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA
with the remaining £900 million due to
regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as
complete in 2025. to these products without agency clearance.
7
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Overview
Chief Executive’s Overview
When I was appointed Chief Executive in
We set a compelling ambition to May 2023, I set out to do two things: bring
focus and discipline to the execution of our
strategy, and deliver profitable transformation.
be a predominantly Smokeless
Despite a challenging external
environment, I believe 2024 was a pivotal
business by 2035, driven by our
year in BAT's transformation with a real
focus on investment for future growth.
refined strategy, and this is
We set a compelling ambition to be a
predominantly Smokeless business by
already paying dividends. 2035, driven by our refined strategy, and
this is already paying dividends.
Our global footprint and multi-category
product portfolio have enabled us to
continue to deliver resilient performance
and value for shareholders – even during
uncertain times. This, combined with our
inclusive and delivery-focused culture,
means we can achieve results today
while pursuing future opportunities,
reinforcing our commitment to enhance
shareholder returns.
The foundations we have in place are
strong. Looking ahead, strategic delivery
and deployment are where we will focus
our efforts to create A Better Tomorrow™.
Full-Year 2024 Performance
Tadeu Marroco Despite a challenging environment, the
Chief Executive resilience of BAT was reflected in our 2024
performance. Our focus on investment
throughout the year is evident, with
delivery in line with our guidance. Total
Group revenue declined by 5.2%, largely
due to the negative impact of the sale of
our businesses in Russia and Belarus,
partway through 2023 (and which, in turn,
had an impact on 2024) and a translational
currency headwind.
We continued to perform well in both AME
and APMEA, growing total revenue
(excluding Russia and Belarus and foreign
exchange). I am pleased with the
acceleration of our performance in the
second half of the year, driven by the phasing
of New Categories innovation and the
benefits of investment in U.S. commercial
actions, together with the unwind of related
wholesaler inventory movements.
In the U.S., I am encouraged that our
investment approach is strengthening
our business, despite a challenging macro-
economic backdrop and the continued
prevalence of illicit single-use nicotine
products. Through our commercial actions,
we are confident we can further improve
our performance through sharper
execution and by opening up untapped
growth opportunities, particularly related
to Modern Oral.
Our New Categories delivered another
strong performance, after achieving
profitability (at a category contribution
level) two years ahead of plan last year.
In 2024, revenue from our Smokeless
products accounted for 17.5% of Group
revenue.
8
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2024 also saw further progress towards an Quality Growth Our new Chief Financial Officer, Soraya
agreement regarding the ongoing litigation As the driving force behind our transformation, Benchikh, and I will be working closely
in Canada. I am pleased that there appears our Quality Growth pillar is about how we together to build on our financial foundation.
to be a pathway to an agreement of all innovate, transition into the future, and We will also continue our disciplined
parties which we believe will enable the deliver great products in a sustainable way approach, with a focus on capital allocation
Group to continue to transform in this for consumers. and debt management. We have increasing
important market. flexibility to deliver sustainable value, while
With a more balanced focus on top-line and
While the headwinds in our operating bottom-line delivery, we are already seeing remaining agile to respond to macro-
environment remain, I am assured by the results in AME and APMEA. Meanwhile, our economic and regulatory developments.
strength demonstrated by the business. investments in the U.S. have put us on a As part of our active capital allocation, in
However, the prospect of ongoing volatility stable footing which will enable us to March we announced a £1.6 billion share
gives us even more impetus for sharper replicate that success. Despite recent buy-back programme, consisting of
strategic focus and delivery. challenges, the U.S. remains the most £700 million in 2024 and £900 million in
A Refined Strategy profitable tobacco and nicotine market in the 2025. This, in addition to maintaining a
I believe we have the right strategy to drive world and I believe it will be the cornerstone growing dividend, reflects our commitment
us forward to greater success. 2024 was of our future growth. to enhancing shareholder returns.
an investment year, paving the way We will maximise our growth potential by Ensuring that BAT is a diverse, inclusive
towards our ambition. The direction of focusing on brands, efficiency and margin and people-oriented place to work is
travel is clear, and execution and cultural delivery across our business. At the same another core part of the Dynamic Business
transformation are where we are focusing. time, we will continue to build and maintain pillar. I am truly proud of the culture we
One of my highlights of 2024 was leading our competitive edge, while progressing have built and the thousands of people
our Capital Markets Day in Southampton, our Beyond Nicotine portfolio and across the globe who are bringing BAT's
where my Management Board showcased investments with an eye to medium- ambitions to life.
the progress made against priority areas and long-term growth. Looking Ahead with Confidence
for the business. From achieving Effective regulation, both in the U.S. and What is clear to me is that our refined
profitability of our New Categories the rest of the world, will be pivotal to strategy is right and the foundations we're
business two years ahead of schedule to ensure a level playing field and to allow building upon are firm.
improving our financial flexibility and strong consumers to switch to Smokeless We are transparent about our intention
cash generation, it is evident that our alternatives if they choose. Our long track to move our business beyond cigarettes
strategy is working. record of managing regulatory change by migrating adult smokers from cigarettes
gives us confidence that we will be able to Smokeless products.
to navigate these issues.
What we won't do is shy away from the
challenges that may come as a result. An
example of this in 2024 was the launch of
our new industry-leading ambitions for our
The future is bright for BAT. I am
Vapour devices and liquids, supported by
evidence-based solutions, to tackle some
excited about the difference we can
of the most pressing societal concerns. We
are actively engaging with stakeholders,
make, and the potential we have to and investing heavily in our science,
innovation and resource to enable us to
Build a Smokeless World and drive execute with precision and achieve high
quality, long-term growth – with
A Better Tomorrow™. sustainability and integrity throughout.
Our transformation journey is well
underway, and we are an organisation
ready to deliver, with operational excellence
and improving capital allocation flexibility
for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Another highlight for me this year was the Sustainable Future
launch of OmniTM, a dedicated resource The Sustainable Future pillar is crucial The future is bright for BAT. I am excited
created by BAT specifically for scientists, to achieving our goal of creating A Better about the difference we can make, and the
public health authorities, regulators, policy Tomorrow™ by Building a Smokeless World. potential we have to Build a Smokeless
makers and investors. It articulates our World and drive A Better Tomorrow™.
It emphasises our investment in the quality
progress towards A Smokeless World, and
of our Smokeless products – driven by
demonstrates how science, innovation and
science, and our commitment to further
over a decade's worth of evidence can
external engagement and advocacy,
combine to achieve it.
including with regulators, to make our
None of this would be possible without purpose a reality.
the 48,000+ talented people who work at
Sustainability and integrity remain a priority
BAT, who are guided by BAT’s core values
in everything we do as we work to provide
every day.
more adult consumers around the world
The truly inclusive culture we are building will with access to Smokeless products
ensure we have the talent to deliver both now responsibly.
and in the future. Further details on our new
Dynamic Business
people strategy and culture transformation
can be found on pages 38–39. Building further on BAT’s success, the Notes:
Dynamic Business pillar reflects our 1. Please refer to the Non-GAAP section from page 395
Our refined strategy is now embedded commitment to ensuring the business for the Non-GAAP measures definitions.
across the business, and it is fundamentally operates efficiently and effectively across * Based on the weight of evidence and assuming
built upon three pillars: Quality Growth, all areas. a p r c o o d m uc p t le s t a e r e s w no it t c h ri s f k ro f m re e c i a g n a d re a t r t e e a s d m d o ic k t in iv g e . . These
Sustainable Future and Dynamic Business.
This will be achieved by creating financial † Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo,
Together they form a roadmap which we Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA
believe will enable BAT to continue to grow flexibility to invest in our people, our products regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as
and to maximise shareholder returns. to these products without agency clearance.
and transform sustainably, responsibly
and successfully.
9
Non GAAP
Our Performance Metrics 2024 % 2023 % 2022
PAAG
SRFI
noitamrofsnarT 4202
-
evitnecnI
5202
-
evitnecnI
paaG-noN
rehtO
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Overview
Our Year in Numbers
Consumer
Number of Smokeless Product Consumers1 (see page 392) 29.1m 25.5m 22.3m
Cigarette and HP volume share growth (bps) 10 bps -10 bps -10 bps •
Cigarette and HP value share growth (bps) -30 bps -50 bps flat
Volume
Vapour (mn units) 616 -6 % 654 +7 % 612
HP (bn sticks) 21 -12 % 24 -1 % 24
Modern Oral (bn pouches) 8.3 +55 % 5.4 +34 % 4.0
Cigarettes (bn sticks) 505 -9 % 555 -8 % 605
Financial
Revenue (£m) 25,867 -5.2 % 27,283 -1.3 % 27,655 •
Organic Revenue at cc (%)2,3,5 +1.3 % +3.1 % • • •
Revenue from New Categories (£m) 3,432 +2.5 % 3,347 +15.6 % 2,894 •
Organic Revenue from New Categories at cc (%)2,5 +8.9 % +21.0 % • •
Smokeless revenue as % of total revenue (%) 17.5 % 16.5 % • •
Profit/(loss) from Operations (£m) 2,736 n/m -15,751 -250 % 10,523 •
Adjusted Organic Profit from Operations at cc (%)2,3,5 +1.4 % +3.9 % • •
Operating Margin (%) 10.6% -57.7% 38.1% •
Adjusted Operating Margin (%)3 46.0% 45.7% 44.9% •
Diluted Earnings/(Loss) per Share (p)4 136.0 n/m -646.6 -322 % 291.9 •
Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share (p)3,4 362.5 -3.5 % 375.6 +1.1 % 371.4 •
Adjusted Organic Diluted Earnings per Share at cc (%)2,3,4,5 +3.6 % +5.2% • •
Dividends per Share (p) 240.24 +2.0 % 235.52 +2.0 % 230.88
Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 66.3% 62.7% 62.2%
Net Cash Generated from Operating Activities (£m) 10,125 -5.5 % 10,714 +3.1 % 10,394 •
Cash Conversion (%) 370% -68% 99% •
Borrowings, including Lease Liabilities (£m) 36,950 -7.0 % 39,730 -7.9 % 43,139 •
Total Shareholder Return (rank) 5 of 15 13 of 24 4 of 24 • •
+ Find our key sustainability ambitions,
targets and metrics on page 69
Please refer to the Non-GAAP section from page 395 for the Non-GAAP measures definitions. See the section ‘Non-Financial Measures’
on page 391 for more information on these non-financial KPIs.
Notes:
1. Excludes Russia and Belarus.
2. Where measures are presented ‘at constant rates’ or ‘at cc’, the measures are calculated based on a re-translation, at the prior year’s exchange rates, of the current year results of the
Group and, where applicable, its segments. See page 58 for the major foreign exchange rates used for Group reporting.
3. Where measures are presented as ‘adjusted’, they are presented before the impact of adjusting items. Adjusting items represent certain items of income and expense which the Group
considers distinctive based on their size, nature or incidence.
4. In 2023, the Group reported a loss for the year. Following the requirements of IAS 33, the impact of share options would be antidilutive and is therefore excluded, for 2023, from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IFRS. For remuneration purposes, and reflective of the Group's positive earnings on an adjusted basis,
Management included the dilutive effect of share options in calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share.
5. This measure is presented as it forms part of the Group's incentive schemes and is presented excluding the distortive effect of the sale (in 2023) of the Group's businesses in Russia
and Belarus.
10
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Introducing Omni
™
Forward Thinking
for a Smokeless
World
Review the evidence.
Join the conversation.
Omni™ is an evidence-based
manifesto for change, which captures
BAT’s commitment and progress
towards Building a Smokeless World
to create A Better Tomorrow™.
It makes a compelling case, offering
insights into our scientific and real-
world evidence of Tobacco Harm
Reduction (THR) in action, supported
by hundreds of independent scientific
studies, our own research into
innovations, and real-world examples.
Our ambition is for Omni™ to
be a platform for a necessary
societal conversation founded
Tobacco Harm Reduction
presents a significant public
in evidence, a manifesto for health opportunity.
It is our hope that Omni™
change and a mandate for
will spur a dialogue with
stakeholders – scientists,
action. public health authorities,
regulators, policy makers, and
investors – and across the
Kingsley Wheaton wider scientific and regulatory
ecosystem related to tobacco
Chief Corporate Officer
and nicotine products.
www.asmokelessworld.com
11
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our Strategy
Our Strategic Navigator
Purpose/Vision/Mission
Pillars & Building Blocks
We are BAT:
Our Values
Delivering for Consumers Society Employees Shareholders & Investors
12
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Quality Growth Sustainable Future Dynamic Business
In the tobacco and nicotine industry, steady In recent years real strides have been We are confident that we can create the
combustibles revenues and growth of made with Tobacco Harm Reduction (THR). financial flexibility to invest in our people,
New Categories have driven continued As a result, there are now three significant enhance our products and deliver returns
revenue growth. global Smokeless tobacco and nicotine to shareholders.
Meanwhile, only around 10% of the world’s product categories: Vapour products, Our commitment to building an organisation
one billion smokers have Switched to Heated Products and Modern Oral where people and performance come
Better*, replacing combustibles with nicotine products. together to create excellence remains.
Smokeless products. Reducing the health impact of our business This is why creating an exciting, winning
The opportunities for future growth, as via THR is our ambition, which we believe is company is one of the building blocks of
we look to accelerate this transformation, achievable by migrating more smokers to the Dynamic Business pillar.
are vast. Smokeless products and advocating for the Additionally, delivering value for
Our human and financial resource right regulatory environments for these shareholders through sustainable returns
allocation decisions will be guided by the products to flourish. We must do this remains essential to achieving our strategic
geographies and products we focus on, responsibly and with integrity. ambition. For more than 25 years we have
aided by our market archetype. We recognise and support the objective consistently grown the dividend per
of governments to reduce smoking rates ordinary share in absolute terms.
We will enhance our innovation ecosystem
to achieve our aim of developing an and its associated health impact. We have returned over £27.5 billion to
incredible pipeline of new, scientifically Combustible tobacco products pose shareholders over the last five years,
substantiated products. serious health risks. The only way to avoid through our progressive dividend policy
these risks is not to start or to quit smoking. and sustainable share buy-back, starting
Our combustibles business remains
essential to funding our transformation For those adults who would otherwise with £700 million in 2024 with a further
and continuing to reward our shareholders. continue to smoke or start smoking, we £900 million committed for 2025. We have
believe they should be able to make better also continued to reduce leverage and
To enhance BAT’s growth beyond 2025, choices by opting for Smokeless closed the year within our narrowed target
in Beyond Nicotine we will pave the way alternatives instead of cigarettes. range.
to a new portfolio of non-nicotine-based
products. Within this space, there are two Our efforts will be led primarily by science, Reducing gross debt is another core
categories that BAT is exploring: Wellbeing supported by ongoing active external component of the Dynamic Business pillar.
and Stimulation – functional consumable engagement with regulators and key The Group continues to target a solid
products that help people manage their stakeholders, while embedding investment-grade credit rating target.
mood and wellbeing; and cannabis. sustainability across the Group. Given current challenges in the external
As we transition from cigarettes to environment, the Group aims to de-lever
Smokeless products, our transformation its gross debt levels (£37.0 billion in 2024)
must be comprehensive – addressing not and moderate the annual net financing
only our products' public health impact but cost levels to better support the overall
also our other material sustainability topics. strategy of the Group. While net financing
costs were £1.1 billion in 2024, this included
a net gain in respect of a debt liability
management exercise (described on page
55) of £590 million. On an adjusted basis,
our net finance costs were £1.6 billion in 2024.
Our commitments Our commitments Our commitments
under Quality Growth: under Sustainable Future: under Dynamic Business:
Progressing toward quality, margin- Building a Smokeless World Creating a diverse, inclusive and
accretive growth in Smokeless products Investing in the products, science people-oriented place to work
FMC volume decline but and engagement to make A Better Being data-driven and delivering
expecting continuing value delivery Tomorrow™ a reality operational excellence/cost management
Sensibly investing for the future Conducting our business sustainably Focused on investors’ returns
Beyond Nicotine and with integrity
+ For more details on the Quality + For more details on the Sustainable + For more details on the Dynamic
Growth pillar of our refined Future pillar of our refined strategy Business pillar of our refined
strategy,see page 26 see page 60 strategy,see page 38
Note:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
13
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our Strategy
Our Business Model
As a global thought-leading business, it’s crucial for us to understand
our adult consumers’ preferences, so we can develop products
they love and distribute them around the world. Listening to
feedback from stakeholders also enables us to refine our strategy,
deliver sustainable value and build A Better Tomorrow™.
Our eight-step business model
Our business model begins and ends with the consumer. Following the responsible sourcing of raw materials and
The insights we gather from adult consumers, backed by robust components, we utilise our global footprint to manufacture
science, unlock value by ensuring we offer the right product at speed and scale. We use our global distribution capabilities
choices to meet their preferences. Our product portfolio is to ensure our products are where they need to be, when they
constantly being enhanced through innovations designed to are needed, based on our market archetype model. Through
our responsible marketing practices and powerful portfolio,
better serve adult consumers and build A Better Tomorrow™.
we market and sell our products which, in turn, generate
+ Read more about our further insights.
stakeholders on page 18 and 19
14
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Seeing over the horizon Accelerating Tobacco Harm Staying ahead of the curve Sourcing materials
We possess a deep understanding Reduction acceptance With consumer preferences and responsibly
of consumers and their diverse To substantiate the product safety, technology evolving at pace, we Most of our tobacco is sourced by our
preferences. This is aided by our rich quality and reduced-risk potential of rely on our growing global network Group-owned vertically integrated Leaf
heritage as one of the most our New Category products we rely of digital hubs, innovation hubs, Operations through direct contracts
established tobacco and nicotine on world-class science. It is crucial world-class R&D laboratories, with c.91,000 farmers. The remaining
businesses in the world, and our data for building trust with consumers external partnerships and our tobacco is sourced from third-party
and analytics-led approach. and regulators, and encouraging corporate venturing initiative, suppliers that, in turn, contract with an
These insights enable the adult smokers to completely switch Btomorrow Ventures. estimated 157,000 farmers. The vast
development and responsible to less risky alternatives*†1. Innovation is central to us driving majority of tobacco farms in our supply
marketing of our products, so that Chemistry, molecular biology, and sustainable growth, and we invest chain are smallholder family farms.
they are fit to satisfy consumer toxicology are just some of the fields significantly in research and Beyond tobacco, we source product
preferences. that our extensive scientific research development to create incredible materials like paper and filters for
Powered by our consumer insights programme covers. We are transparent products that satisfy consumer cigarettes and, for our New Category
platform, we focus on product about our science and have recently tastes. Led by data and consumer products, we have a growing supply
categories and consumer segments published a compendium of insights, each innovation takes us chain in consumer electronics and
across our global business that information in the Omni™, which a step further towards building e-liquids. We also have a vast network
have the greatest potential for explores over a decade’s worth of A Better Tomorrow™ by reducing of suppliers of indirect goods and
sustainable growth. Tobacco Harm Reduction evidence, the health impact of our business. services that are unrelated to our
Link to Principal Risks alongside science and research. Link to Principal Risks a p n ro d d f u a c c t il s it , i s e u s c m h a a n s a f g o e r m IT e s n e t r . vices
Tobacco, New Categories and other Link to Principal Risks Inability to develop, commercialise
regulation interrupts growth Competition from illicit trade; and deliver the New Categories Link to Principal Risks
strategy; Inability to develop, Tobacco, New Categories and other strategy; Climate change; Circular Geopolitical tensions; Supply chain
commercialise and deliver regulation interrupts growth strategy; economy; Cyber security disruption; Inability to develop,
the New Categories strategy; Significant increases or structural commercialise and deliver the New
Climate change; Circular economy; changes in tobacco, nicotine and New Categories strategy; Injury, illness
Cyber security Categories related taxes; Inability to or death in the workplace; Solvency
develop, commercialise and deliver and liquidity; Foreign exchange rate
the New Categories strategy exposures; Climate change; Circular
economy; Cyber security
+ Read more about our science at
www.asmokelessworld.com + Read more about our
supply chain on page 109
Utilising our global Moving our products Marketing our Offering the
manufacturing footprint seamlessly everywhere products responsibly consumer choice
Our high-quality products are Using modern technologies, including Using a globally responsible We are proud of our powerful
manufactured in our facilities across AI and machine learning, helps us to approach to marketing, we seek to portfolio of brands. This includes
the globe. These products and the get our products to the right place at help raise standards and prevent our combustibles portfolio and our
tobacco leaf we source are then the right time. under-age access, while growing our Smokeless product brands which
optimised for distribution and sale. Our products are sold around the market share by encouraging adult we believe will accelerate us towards
Our New Category products are world and distributed efficiently using consumers to choose our products. our strategic aim. Our product
manufactured in a mix of our own distribution models tailored to suit Our marketing across all our tobacco, pipeline is strong, aided by our quality
and third-party factories. We work to local circumstances and conditions. nicotine and nicotine-free products insights, science and innovation,
keep our costs globally competitive These distribution models include and brands is governed by our and being well-positioned globally.
and endeavour to use our resources retailers, supplied through our direct Responsible Marketing Principles We offer adult consumers all over
as effectively as possible. distribution capability or exclusive (RMP) and Responsible Marketing the world a range of high-quality
Link to Principal Risks
d
C
i
o
s
n
tr
s
ib
u
u
m
to
er
r s
b
,
u
a
s
n
i
d
n e
o
s
u
s
r
–
D
w
ire
h
c
ic
t-
h
t o
h
-
as been
C
to
o
b
d
e
e.
a
T
c
h
c
e
u
y
r
i
a
n
t
c
e
lu
,
d
re
e
s
s
p
t
o
ri
n
ct
s i
r
b
e
l
q
e
u
, a
ir
n
em
d
ents p
to
r o
p
d
r
u
e
c
m
ts
iu
–
m
f
,
r
i
o
n
m
clu
v
d
a
i
l
n
u
g
e -
c
f
o
o
m
r-m
bu
o
s
n
t
e
ib
y
l e
Geopolitical tensions; Supply chain accelerated through the deployment targeted at adult consumers only. products, Vapour, Modern Oral
disruption; Disputed taxes, interest of owned e-commerce sites. Our RMP are applied even when and Heated Products.
and penalties; Injury, illness or death they are stricter than local laws.
Link to Principal Risks
in the workplace; Solvency and Link to Principal Risks
liquidity; Foreign exchange rate Geopolitical tensions; Tobacco, Link to Principal Risks Competition from illicit trade;
exposures; Climate change; New Categories and other regulation Competition from illicit trade; Geopolitical tensions; Tobacco,
Circular economy interrupts growth strategy; Supply Tobacco, New Categories and New Categories and other regulation
chain disruption; Inability to develop, other regulation interrupts growth interrupts growth strategy; Supply
commercialise and deliver the strategy; Inability to develop, Chain disruption; Litigation; Significant
New Categories strategy; Foreign commercialise and deliver the increases or structural changes in
exchange rate exposures; Climate New Categories strategy; Litigation; tobacco, nicotine and New Categories
change; Cyber security Foreign exchange rate exposures related taxes; Inability to develop,
commercialise and deliver the New
Notes: + Read more about Categories strategy; Disputed taxes,
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch responsible marketing interest and penalties; Foreign
from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive. on page 77 exchange rate exposures;
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, Circular economy
are subject to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these
products without agency clearance.
15
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our Strategy
Our Business Model
Continued
A Better Tomorrow™ for:
Consumers Suppliers Our People
Adult consumers are at the core Across the BAT Group, we work We employ 48,000+ people
of everything we do and our success with thousands of different suppliers worldwide. Attracting and retaining
is underpinned by addressing their worldwide. Our suppliers are valued an increasingly diverse workforce and
preferences, offering them a choice business partners and we believe, providing a welcoming, inclusive
of enjoyable, innovative and less by working together, we can raise working environment are key drivers
risky products*†. standards, drive sustainable practices, in BAT’s transformation journey to
create shared value and build A Better build A Better Tomorrow™. Our focus
Tomorrow™ for all. is on providing a dynamic, inspiring
and purposeful place to work.
Measured by: Measured by:
63 84%
Countries where Vapour Engagement Index score in our
products are available Your Voice employee survey
33 0.12
Countries where Heated Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
Products are available vs 0.17 in 2023
44 44%
Customers
Countries where Modern Oral Proportion of women in
products are available Our customers include retailers, Management‡ roles
distributors and wholesalers who are
essential for driving growth and
embedding responsible marketing Accredited as Global Top
practices.
Employer by the Top
Employers Institute
Note:
‡ As at 31 December 2024. Refer to the BAT
'Reporting Criteria' for a full description of key
terms and definitions bat.com/reporting.
16
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Non-Financial and
Sustainability Information
Statement
Non-financial and sustainability
information reporting required under
the UK Companies Act is included in
the Strategic Report as referenced below:
+ Our business model is
set out on pages 14 to 17
+ See pages 155 to 162
for Group Principal Risks
+ See page 10 and page 69 for the
Group’s financial and non-financial
key performance indicators
Shareholders Our reporting in the following areas
Society includes information about the
& Investors policies and principles that govern our
approach, due diligence processes,
We believe the greatest contribution We are committed to delivering outcomes and non-financial
we can make to society is Building a sustainable and superior returns to performance indicators:
Smokeless World and reducing the our shareholders and investors. It is
health impact of our business. We will essential that we maintain the + Environmental matters
do this by encouraging those smokers support of our shareholders and pages 65 to 71, 78 to 101, 114 to 117,
and 120 to 152
who would otherwise continue to investors to enable access to capital.
smoke to switch completely to This allows us to implement our + Social matters
Smokeless alternatives. Achieving strategy and achieve our business pages 65 to 71 and 102 to 117
this, while working to reduce our objectives.
impact on the environment, is central + Anti-bribery and anti-corruption matters
pages 114 to 119
to delivering A Better Tomorrow™.
+ Employees
pages 38 to 39, 68 to 71, 110 to 116
Measured by: Measured by: and 182 to 183
+ Respect for human rights
29.1m pages 65, 102 to 109, and 110 to 117
Consumers of Smokeless
Our climate-related financial disclosures
products
are set out on pages 120 to 136. Further
details of our Group policies, procedures
31% 65% and standards can be found on pages 116
and 117 and at www.bat.com.
Reduction of waste generated A progressive dividend being
(vs 2017 baseline) a 65% dividend payout ratio
over the long term
-42.6%
Reduction in Scope 1 & 2
emissions from our
2020 baseline
Notes:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming
a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These
products are not risk free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse,
Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject
to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will
be made as to these products without agency
clearance.
‡ Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for a full
description of key terms and definitions at
bat.com/reporting.
17
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our Strategy
Engaging with Our Stakeholders
We work with, take into account and respond to the views and concerns
of our stakeholders. This enables us to adapt to emerging risks and work
to meet the expectations placed upon us as a multinational business.
Consumers Shareholders & Investors Our People
Why this stakeholder As preferences and attitudes change in It is essential that we maintain the The quality of our people is a major
an evolving industry, understanding our support of our shareholders and reason why our Group continues to
is important to us
adult consumers is essential to bondholders to maintain access to perform well. We understand the
both successful portfolio and capital. This allows us to implement value of listening and responding
business growth. our strategy and achieve our to feedback from our people to
business objectives. maintain a fulfilling, rewarding
and responsible work environment.
Examples of how we –Consumer panels, focus groups –Annual General Meeting –Director market and site visits
engaged in 2024 and interviews –Investor relations programme –Virtual forums
–Consumer care helplines and shareholder engagement, –Employee town halls
–Responsible marketing and including on our Directors’ –Global and regional webcasts
transparent communication Remuneration Policy –Your Voice employee surveys
–Real-time digital platforms –Institutional shareholder meetings –Works councils and European
–Capital Markets Days Employee Council meetings
–Investor roadshows –Graduate and management
–Results announcements trainee events
–Annual Report and Form 20-F –Individual performance reviews
–Suite of focused sustainability reports –Speak Up channels
and wider disclosures
–Stock exchange announcements
–Shareholder information on website
–Launch of Omni™
What matters to –Health impact of our products –Business performance –Reward
our stakeholders and other social considerations –Sustainability agenda –Career development
–Product quality –Corporate governance –Diversity and inclusion
–Affordability and price –Strength of Group leadership –Corporate responsibility
–Ingredients/nicotine levels –Board succession planning –Health and safety
–Plastics/post-consumption –Business ethics
product waste
How we respond –Development of innovative products –Regular dialogue and communications –Extensive communications and
–Product stewardship, quality and with shareholders and investors engagement with our people
safety standards –Robust corporate governance worldwide during and following
–Clear and accurate product –Double Materiality Assessment^ the pandemic
information and review of reporting landscape –Board review of and feedback
–Responsible Marketing Principles –Continual improvement of our on workforce engagement
and Responsible Marketing Code Delivery with Integrity programme –Training and development
–Circular economy strategy –Our range of enjoyable and innovative programme
and initiatives products –Diversity & Inclusion Strategy
–Product quality and safety standards –Delivery with Integrity programme
–Responsible Marketing Principles and
Responsible Marketing Code
Principal risk impact –Competition from illicit trade –Competition from illicit trade –Geopolitical tensions
–Tobacco, New Categories and other –Geopolitical tensions –Supply chain disruption
regulation interrupts growth –Tobacco, New Categories and other –Injury, illness or death in
strategy regulation interrupts growth strategy the workplace
–Supply chain disruption –Litigation –Climate change
–Significant increases or structural –Significant increases or structural –Circular economy
changes in tobacco, nicotine and changes in tobacco, nicotine and New –Cyber security
New Categories related taxes Categories related taxes
–Inability to develop, commercialise –Inability to develop, commercialise
and deliver the New Categories and deliver the New Categories strategy
strategy –Disputed taxes, interest and penalties
–Climate change –Solvency and liquidity
–Circular economy –Foreign exchange rate exposures
–Cyber security –Climate change
–Circular economy
–Cyber security
18
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Listening to our stakeholders helps us better understand their
views and concerns, and enables us to respond to them appropriately.
It gives us valuable inputs to, and feedback on, our strategic approach,
as well as our policies, procedures and ways of working.
UK Companies Act:
Section 172(1) Statement
Suppliers Customers Government & Wider Society Our Directors have a duty,
individually and collectively
as the Board, to act as they
consider most likely to promote
Effective relationships with farmers Our customers include retailers, global We seek to be part of the debate that
the success of the Company for
and suppliers of tobacco leaf, product and local key accounts, distributors shapes the regulatory environment
the benefit of our members as
materials and indirect services are and wholesalers that are essential for in which we operate, and to work
a whole.
essential to an efficient, productive driving growth and embedding collaboratively to develop joint
and secure supply chain. responsible marketing practices. solutions to common challenges. As part of this duty, our Directors
must have regard for likely long-
term consequences of decisions
and the desirability of maintaining
a reputation for high standards of
–Extension Services farmer support –Ongoing dialogue and account –Meetings and ongoing dialogue
business conduct. Our Directors
–Ongoing dialogue and relationship management –Submissions to government must also have regard for our
management –Customer Voice survey and advisory committees employees’ interests, business
–Supplier Voice survey, events –Audits/performance reviews –Multi-stakeholder partnerships relationships with our wider
and supplier summits –Sales calls and visits by trade and working groups stakeholders, the impact of our
–Strategic partnerships representatives –External Scientific & Regulatory operations on the environment
–B2B programmes Panel and communities in which we
–Digital B2B eCommerce platforms –Peer-reviewed research operate and the need to act
–Biodiversity standards and fairly between shareholders.
improvement programmes Consideration of these factors
–Community investment and other relevant matters is
programmes and NGO partnerships embedded into all Board
decision-making, strategy
–Double Materiality Assessment^
development and risk
related engagements
assessment throughout the year.
–Launch of Omni™
Our key stakeholders and primary
ways in which we engage with
–Productivity/quality/cost •–Route-to-market planning –Digital B2B eCommerce platforms them are set out in the table to
–Sustainable agriculture –Contingency planning –Product regulation the left. Pages 164, 172 to 175
–Farmer livelihoods –Cost, price and quality –Tax/excise/illicit trade and 178 to 184 provide further
explanation of our Board’s
–Human rights –Stock availability –Responsible marketing
approach to understanding
–Health and safety –Consumer buying behaviour –Public health impacts
stakeholder interests to enable
–Climate change impacts –Underage access prevention –Human rights relevant considerations to be
–Double Materiality Assessment^ –Climate change impacts drawn on in Board discussion
and review of reporting landscape and decision-making.
Where the Board delegates
authority for decision-making
–Supplier Code of Conduct –Customer loyalty programmes –Standards of Business Conduct to management, our Group
–Sustainable agriculture and farmer and incentives (SoBC) governance framework
livelihoods programme –Global Underage Access Prevention –Delivery with Integrity programme discussed on pages 172 and 173
–Leaf operational standards for PPE (UAP) Guidelines and initiatives –Targeting 50% absolute reduction in mandates consideration
and child labour prevention Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions of these factors and other
–Farmer Extension Services support by 2030 (vs 2020 baseline) relevant matters as a critical
and training –Human rights and climate part of delegated authorities.
impact assessments Examples of some of the ways
–Community investment that these factors have shaped
programmes and Group strategy and initiatives
charitable donations during the year are referenced
in the table to the left. Examples
of how these factors have been
–Geopolitical tensions –Competition from illicit trade –Competition from illicit trade taken into account in Board
–Supply chain disruption –Geopolitical tensions –Geopolitical tensions decision-making and strategy
development during the year are
–Inability to develop, commercialise –Tobacco, New Categories and other –Tobacco, New Categories and other
provided on page 184.
and deliver the New Categories regulation interrupts growth regulation interrupts growth strategy
strategy strategy –Litigation Note:
–Injury, illness or death –Supply chain disruption –Significant increases or structural ^ Although financial materiality has been
in the workplace –Significant increases or structural changes in tobacco, nicotine and considered in the development of our
–Solvency and liquidity changes in tobacco, nicotine and New Categories related taxes Double Materiality Assessment (DMA),
–Foreign exchange rate exposures New Categories related taxes –Inability to develop, commercialise our DMA and any conclusions in this
–Climate change –Inability to develop, commercialise and deliver the New Categories document as to the materiality or
significance of sustainability matters
–Circular economy and deliver the New Categories Strategy do not imply that all topics discussed
–Cyber security strategy –Disputed taxes, interest and therein are financially material to our
–Climate change penalties business taken as a whole, and such
–Circular economy –Climate change topics may not significantly alter the
–Cyber security –Circular economy total mix of information available
about our securities.
–Cyber security
19
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our Strategy
Chief Financial Officer’s Overview:
Investment Case
w
>50%
We are committed to delivering
sustainable shareholder returns
Group revenue ambition from
by driving quality New Category Smokeless products by 2035
growth and extracting value from
Combustibles, together with 50m
maximising cash generation to
Consumers of our Smokeless
fund our progressive dividend
products by 2030 ambition
and sustainable share buy-back.
Soraya Benchikh
Soraya Benchikh
CChhieieff F Fininaanncciiaall OOffffiicceerr
Download our new Investor Relations
app to access live share prices, news,
reports and webcasts at:
myirapp.com/bat/
20
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Transformation Driving Building a Sustainable Future
Quality Growth for Our Stakeholders
Our corporate purpose is to build A Better Tomorrow™ by Building a Sustainable Future is about seeking to actively
reducing the health impact of our business. To accelerate the migrate consumers away from cigarettes and to Smokeless
next phase of our transformation, we are committed to Building alternatives sustainably, responsibly and with integrity.
a Smokeless World. We will deploy our global multi-category We seek to take a leading role in tackling some of the biggest
portfolio to actively encourage adult smokers to 'Switch to global issues in sustainability. We intend to do this by
Better' nicotine products, and continue to seek long-term responsibly Building a Smokeless World, reducing our use
opportunities Beyond Nicotine in Wellbeing and Stimulation, of natural resources and delivering our climate goals as we
realising the multi-stakeholder benefits of A Better Tomorrow™. transition to A Better Tomorrow™. We strive to create
Our commitment is demonstrated by our ambition to become a meaningful impact in the communities where we operate
a predominantly smokeless business, with over 50% of our and inspire all our people to drive change.
revenue from Smokeless products by 2035. Revenue growth In 2024, we refined our sustainability strategy to better address
in the global nicotine industry is accelerating through the our material topics and continue to deliver greater value to our
development of New Categories, which offer reduced-risk stakeholders, with five strategic delivery areas:
alternatives*† to smoking. 1. Tobacco Harm Reduction, 2. Climate, 3. Nature, 4. Circularity,
We continue to make progress towards our target of 50 million and 5. Communities.
adult consumers of our Smokeless products by 2030, adding Action plans to address these focus areas are underway, and
another 3.6 million in 2024 to a total of 29.1 million. our commitments in each are rooted in ambitions and targets
Prioritising where and what products to focus on, via our market against which we will track and share the progress as our
archetype model, will guide our resource allocation decisions. transformation continues.
We are profitable within our New Categories business, on a Science will be a primary driver of our efforts, supported by
category contribution basis. more active external engagement and regulatory focus, while
We strive to continue to profitably and responsibly manage embedding sustainability across the organisation.
our transition away from combustibles, generating funds to As we continue working towards reducing the health and
further invest in our transformation and deliver sustainable sustainability impact of our business, we will drive growth,
profit growth and cash flow over the long-term. create shared value and build a stronger, more sustainable BAT.
In order to achieve this, our refined strategic pillars will act as For more details on the five strategic delivery areas, see page 60.
our executional compass, and we will drive performance using
KPIs to track our journey.
Dynamic Business Making
Active Choices for the Future
Our multi-category portfolio benefits from decades of consumer
insights that have driven our No. 1 global revenue position in
combustibles.
In addition, leveraging the benefits of our expertise in science and
R&D, our manufacturing, distribution and marketing has enabled
us to build three global brands, Vuse, glo and Velo, delivering over
£3 billion of annual revenue in less than a decade.
Our long-standing experience operating within complex
regulatory, legal and fiscal frameworks provides us with a
compelling competitive advantage to transform within the
wider tobacco industry in the long-term. With our Corporate
and Regulatory Affairs function we are driving a more proactive,
science-led engagement with all stakeholders.
We will continue to increase investment in new capabilities,
including enhancing our innovation pipeline, leading responsible
New Category development and further leveraging our broad
digital enablers. Our transformation will also be accelerated by a
culture of inclusivity and collaboration, supported by senior talent
recruitment from a diverse range of industries. Together with our
Chief People Officer, we are focused on developing a skills-enabled
and performance-driven organisation.
We continuously monitor and assess our capital allocation
framework to: unlock shareholder value through investing in
the right opportunities; optimise the return on our investments;
and maximise our cash generation; reduce our leverage
and generate sustainable cash returns for our shareholders.
Notes:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these products
without agency clearance.
21
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Overview
Chief Financial Officer’s Overview:
Our performance
I am honoured and delighted to be the
Our strategy is expected to Chief Financial Officer of BAT.
I am confident that we are in a strong
deliver shareholder value position to deliver on our ambitions, and
I share the passion and conviction to Build
a Smokeless World.
creation as:
Our strategy is designed to maximise
shareholder sustainable returns.
Combustibles fuel our transformation Our key financial focus areas are:
Targeted capital deployment focuses on return fuelling our transformation as
we maximise value from
on investment
combustibles, using our scale
and efficiencies to release cash;
deploying capital in a disciplined
and targeted manner. This means
investing wisely in the largest profit
Soraya Benchikh pools whilst maintaining a laser
Chief Financial Officer focus on return on investment;
strengthening our financial position
by reducing debt, providing us with
greater financial resilience; and
a balanced capital allocation
approach – prioritising our
transformation while delivering
a progressive dividend, maintaining
a sustainable share buy-back
programme and exploring
bolt-on acquisitions.
We believe we will achieve our priorities
through an algorithm built around five key
drivers.
Our five key drivers are:
Quality revenue growth.
Increase our adjusted gross
profit§.
Accelerate New Category
contribution.
Sustainable growth in
Adjusted Profit from
Operations.
Deliver cash flow.
Note:
§ Adjusted gross profit as defined on page 399.
22
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2024 financial performance summary Delivering our financial algorithm Sustainable growth in Adjusted
Our financial results have been impacted Profit from Operations
Quality revenue growth
by a number of events that impacted the
This is supported by our strict
We aim to maximise the value from
current and comparator period.
management of overhead expenses.
combustibles while driving growth in our
In 2024, revenue was down 5.2% to We are committed to disciplined cost
New Categories through innovation and
£25,867 million (having declined 1.3% in management and to continue to explore
premiumisation.
2023 to £27,283 million). This was partly opportunities to optimise our footprint.
Excluding the impact of currency:
due to the timing of the sale of our Russia
In 2024, our cost optimisation programmes
and Belarus businesses in September 2023, –Combustibles pricing remained a driver
delivered savings of £402 million. This
negatively impacting the comparative of value, with Group price/mix of 5.3%
largely offset the impact of inflation of 6.5%
revenue and profit from operations by in 2024 (compared to 7.5% in 2023).
(or £387 million), mainly due to higher leaf
£479 million and £193 million, respectively. However, our combustibles revenue was
prices (impacted by adverse weather
down 1.6% (2023: down 0.8%), driven by
Profit from operations was £2,736 million, conditions) and manufacturing costs
lower combustibles volume (down 9.0%
against a loss of £15,751 million in 2023. (labour and utilities) and which we expect
in 2024) largely due to the difficult
2023 was also negatively impacted by the to continue into 2025 due to the timing
trading in the U.S. where volume was
impairment charges (£27.3 billion) largely and utilisation of leaf inventory.
10.1% lower. Both years were also
associated with our U.S. combustibles Deliver cash flow
impacted by the timing of the sale of
business. 2024 included a total charge
our businesses in Russia and Belarus.
of £6.2 billion in respect of the anticipated
–New Categories revenue was up 6.1% The Group remains highly cash generative.
settlement of Canadian litigation (see page
in 2024 and 17.8% in 2023, driven by all
328), the first year of amortisation charges In 2024, the Group generated £10.1 billion
three regions as the increases in Modern
of the U.S. combustibles brands (£1.4 billion), (2023: £10.7 billion) of net cash generated
Oral more than offset a decline in Vapour.
a charge of £646 million in respect of Camel from operating activities.
Snus, a charge of £449 million in respect of Increase our adjusted gross profit Since 2020, we have returned £27.5 billion
an excise assessment in Romania and to shareholders, including a £700 million
We aim to continually increase our adjusted
£149 million of fixed asset impairments share buy-back programme in 2024, with
gross profit, as defined on page 399.
related to the Group’s London head office a further £900 million committed for 2025.
Adjusted gross profit is a new measure,
and the intention to seek an orderly exit
introduced in 2024, with comparative Our liquidity profile remains strong, with
from Cuba.
movements to 2023 only. average debt maturity close to 9.5 years
In 2024, translational foreign exchange was and maximum debt maturities in any one
Adjusted gross profit from our combustibles
a headwind on both revenue (by 4.7%) and calendar year of around £4 billion, with a
portfolio, through pricing and efficiencies,
profit from operations (by 4.4%). current rating of Baa1 (stable outlook),
has remained resilient.
Excluding these items, on a constant BBB+ (stable outlook), BBB+ (stable
currency basis, which we believe reflects The main driver of growth has been New outlook) from Moody's, S&P and Fitch**,
Categories, which has improved in each of
the operational performance of the Group: respectively.
the last four years, driven by volume
–Revenue was up 1.3% driven by the Facing the Future with
growth, revenue growth management
continued growth of New Categories, programmes and cost optimisation. Increasing Confidence
which grew revenue by 8.9%; and We believe our business is well placed for
Accelerate New Category
–Adjusted profit from operations was up the future.
1.4%, as New Categories further grew contribution Our track record of delivering robust
profitability (at the category contribution We will continue to invest in our financial performance and consistent
level) building on the momentum shown in transformation. We will focus on the right cash generation demonstrates how we
2023 as those products became profitable opportunities in the key growth areas - navigate the near-term macro-economic
two years earlier than originally planned. evaluating opportunities to maximise uncertainties and challenges, underpinned
On a reported basis, basic EPS was 136.7p returns, freeing up resources for growth by geographic diversity and a portfolio of
compared to -646.6p in 2023, which was a and incremental profit. international brands.
decline of 320.5%. Diluted EPS was 136.0p In 2023, this resulted in our New
in 2024, while in 2023 it was -646.6p, or Categories being profitable (on a
down 321.5%. This was mainly due to the contribution basis), two years ahead of our
impacts to profit from operations original plan.
described earlier, offset by a one-off gain
of £1.4 billion, recognised as the Group
monetised a portion of the investment
in its Indian associate ITC and a credit
of £0.6 billion related to debt refinancing
undertaken in 2024.
Excluding the adjusting items (discussed
on pages 50 and 51) and the effect of
translational foreign exchange, adjusted
diluted earnings per share, at constant
rates, increased by 1.7% to 381.9p, building
on the 4.0% growth in 2023.
We remain highly cash generative. This
allows us to balance investment in the
future while rewarding shareholders with
a further increase in dividends (up 2.0%
to 240.24p).
Notes:
* N/A
** A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell
or hold securities. A credit rating may be subject to
withdrawal or revision at any time. Each rating should
be evaluated separately of any other rating.
.
23
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our Strategy
Our Markets and Megatrends
As a global business, operating at scale within a rapidly evolving landscape,
our markets are shaped by long-term consumer, economic, cultural and
social trends. We continue to respond to this changing environment by developing and
advancing our strategy and long-term priorities.
Megatrends:
TECHNOLOGY CLIMATE CHANGE AND GEOPOLITICS
AND INNOVATION CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND TRADE
Data-Driven Consumers Climate Change New Leadership
Technology and data are transforming Consumers are increasingly urging 2024 was a record year for electoral
consumer behaviours in profound companies to commit to the activity, with over 50 jurisdictions,
ways. Wearable devices like fitness principles of Net Zero emissions and including the United States and
trackers and smartwatches deliver circular economy. Studies indicate various countries across the European
real-time insights into physical activity, that two thirds of consumers want Union, holding major elections involving
heart rate, sleep and more. This brands to reduce their environmental more than 2 billion voters overall.
feedback empowers consumers to impact, with this expectation Among the notable developments, in
make more informed, better choices. increasingly influencing purchasing the UK, the Labour Party achieved its
By analysing patterns in daily habits, decisions. Businesses that fail to meet first victory in 14 years, campaigning
companies can also refine their these expectations risk reputational on a platform for change. In the United
products and services, placing damage and loss of market share. States, both the executive and
consumers firmly at the centre of Adapting to the realities legislative branches pivoted to
product design. This consumer- new leadership.
Simultaneously, the tangible effects
focused, data-driven approach is
of climate change are becoming more Trade policy
impacting sectors across the board.
apparent. Extreme weather events are In 2025, businesses are likely to face
The nicotine industry now more frequent, disrupting both opportunities and challenges in
In the nicotine industry, for example, communities and causing navigating these new political landscapes.
data and connectivity are enabling displacement. Adaptation to climate Many sectors are watching closely for
innovations such as age-restriction change is becoming as essential as policy signals from newly elected
locks and other restrictions on devices taking preventive measures. governments, particularly around
and ensuring products meet safety With the political will to address trade, which may be subject to new
standards and are compliant with climate change fluctuating across strategic priorities or even potential
regulations. Additionally, new nicotine regions, businesses must also frictions under new leadership. Further
products are emerging that allow anticipate and adapt to climate- elections are also due to take place in
users to track their consumption related disruptions within their supply Australia, Canada and Germany.
patterns, while advanced technology chains. This involves building resilience Meanwhile, persistent global conflicts,
can deliver consistent dosages and through strategies such as sourcing including the war in Ukraine and
customisable features allow diversification, adopting climate- tensions in the Middle East, add layers
consumption to be tailored to resilient infrastructure, and of complexity to the geopolitical
individual preferences. strengthening logistics flexibility. environment. Some of the broader
global impacts of the unrest, such as
high inflation, appear to be reducing,
having negatively impacted our
results by £387 million in 2024 as
discussed on page 50. However, these
ongoing challenges will continue to
influence political and economic
stability, underscoring the importance
of adaptive strategies for businesses
and governments alike in the year ahead.
24
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Overview The Turkish Government is reported to be New Categories Regulations
The global nicotine market continues to drafting a bill with similar provisions, while While alternative nicotine products are
evolve rapidly, with heated tobacco and both the Australian and Norwegian gaining traction in markets worldwide,
oral nicotine products gaining traction. Governments have indicated they are there is considerable variation among
It is also increasingly complex with new evaluating comparable policies. Additionally, countries in how RRPs*† are regulated.
and Reduced-Risk Products*† (RRPs) being some individual lawmakers in various The potential benefits of RRPs*† in reducing
developed and brought to new markets countries and in some regional legislatures smoking-related harm have been
each year. have attempted to introduce bills aiming to embraced by regulators in the UK and New
ban sales of tobacco to future generations. Zealand who have actively communicated
Global Market for Combustibles
New Zealand and Malaysia were among that RRPs*† are a better alternative to
and Smokeless
the first countries to move to implement smoking. These countries have
The most recent sales data for the legal this idea. However, in 2023, both countries implemented regulatory frameworks that
global tobacco and nicotine market reversed legislative efforts to introduce reflect this view while remaining vigilant
indicated that it was worth approximately a generational sales ban amid concerns about preventing youth access.
US$927 billion (incl. China). about the constitutionality, practicality
In contrast, certain markets such as Brazil
Combustible cigarettes remained the and enforcement of such measures.
and India remain sceptical about the
largest product category within the market, Lastly, environmental concerns have led potential public health benefits of RRPs*†,
with a global value of US$763 billion, to a rise in policy initiatives targeting opting instead to restrict or ban access to
representing 82% of the total value of combustible materials. The EU’s Single- these products. While other countries have
tobacco and nicotine product sales Use Plastics (SUP) legislation mandates opted to ban specific categories or flavours
worldwide. Around 2.8 trillion cigarettes that Member States implement extended thereby limiting choices for consumers.
were sold globally, based on the most producer responsibility programmes for For instance, in Belgium the sale of nicotine
recently available data. The value of the items including cigarette filters. A review pouches is now prohibited and
global Smokeless products market of the SUP Directive is planned for 2027 in Kazakhstan vapour products are banned.
continues to grow, standing at US$76billion. to evaluate its impact and guide potential
It is increasingly pressing that this debate
Despite combustibles being one of the updates. A small number of other countries
be better understood and guided by data
most highly regulated products in the have also looked at banning the use of
so that millions of smokers are not
world, roughly 17% of the world’s adult filters in cigarettes. Additionally, the United
deterred from switching to these less-
population (incl. China) continue to choose Nations is still considering a pioneering
harmful alternatives. In the U.S., for
to smoke. This sizeable group is likely to global Plastics Treaty, with some example, where RRPs*† are becoming
continue to smoke unless they are offered stakeholders pushing for specific targets
widely established, youth use of tobacco
suitable smokeless alternatives. that would require Member States
products is falling.
to eliminate waste from cigarettes,
The illicit market
as well as from single-use vapour Beyond Nicotine
The illicit tobacco market has continued
product consumption. The Wellbeing and Stimulation category
to increase since the COVID-19 pandemic,
covers products that consumers are
reaching just above 14% of total global + See pages 155 to 162 to read more
seeking to better manage their daily
volume in 2024. Exacerbated by the about our Group Principal Risks
wellbeing. It is expected to grow
increased cost-of-living in many countries, + For further discussion regarding the
to £495 billion by 2030, from around
overall illicit volumes are expected to Regulation of the Group’s Business,
approach an unprecedented level of sales please see pages 436 to 440 £296 billion by most recent estimates.
by 2027. The adult-use cannabis market has also
Continued transition to new products grown with global legal sales estimated to
Illicit trade exists in all world regions, but its The continued adoption of new and less- have reached US$49 billion. Though this
growth is forecast to worsen in the Middle harmful* alternative nicotine products is growth is predominantly concentrated in
East and Africa, Australasia and Asia Pacific. revolutionising the market. The range of the U.S., the global cannabis market is
Global combustible regulation these alternatives is expanding rapidly, anticipated to expand as more countries
Combustible tobacco products are among now including tobacco heating products reassess their prohibitionist approaches.
the most regulated consumer goods (THPs) and reduced-risk*†, tobacco-free
In Europe, Germany has become the first
globally. Some of the more established options such as vapour products, nicotine
major EU Member State to legalise the
measures in different countries include pouches, and, more recently, herbal
personal cultivation and possession of
restrictions on flavour additives, products designed for heating. These
cannabis for recreational use. Luxembourg
standardised (or plain) packaging, bans alternatives are gaining popularity among
and Malta have already taken similar steps,
on smoking in public areas, and prohibitions smokers who wish to continue consuming
and the Czech Republic is actively considering
on displaying tobacco products at points nicotine but not via cigarettes.
comparable measures.
of sale. These policies aim to curb tobacco By 2028, it is estimated that the number
use by reducing its appeal and accessibility. of adult smokers will have declined by This regulatory shift may reflect a broader
trend across countries as policymakers
More recently, and driven in part by World 20 million. Alongside societal changes
explore the potential health, social, and
Health Organization (WHO) initiatives, in attitudes to smoking, this decrease is
economic benefits of legalisation.
countries are setting ‘smoke-free’ targets, driven by consumer preferences shifting
aiming to reduce tobacco use prevalence to RRPs*†, which are forecast to make up
to below 5% by specified dates. an increasing percentage of revenue for
the nicotine market.
Some countries have also begun examining
new types of restrictions on products to The most recent external forecast
meet these targets. Canada, for example, estimates the value of the Vapour product
has recently passed legislation to require market at US$21 billion, with THPs valued
health warnings be placed on cigarette at US$34 billion. Closed-system vapour
sticks, a policy which Australia is also products have become rapidly popular
looking at. A small number of countries are among consumers, owing to their ease of
considering prohibitionist approaches to use. Nicotine pouches, which are one of the Notes:
stop smoking among younger generations. newer innovations in RRPs*†, currently have All data sources on this page are from Euromonitor
The UK, under a new government, has re- a global value of US$7.4 billion in 2022 International research published in 2024 and based on 2023
data (the latest full year available), unless otherwise stated.
initiated examination of a bill which would (led by the U.S.), which is projected to grow All figures exclude China unless otherwise stated.
ban sales of cigarettes to anyone born to just under US$16 billion by 2027. * Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a
after 2008. complete switch from cigarette smoking. These
products are not risk free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo,
Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA
regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made
as to these products without agency clearance.
25
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Quality Growth
Strategic Pillar Overview
Inspiring New Category Innovations and Brands
Quality Growth Since the launch of our first Vapour product in 2013, we have been
on a transformation journey to become a truly multi-category
consumer products business. We are creating new Smokeless
products that encourage adult smokers, who would otherwise
Delivering Quality Growth emphasises
continue to smoke, to switch to scientifically-substantiated,
the transition to a more balanced focus on reduced-risk*† alternatives.
top-line and bottom-line delivery, centred In 2024, our Quality Growth imperative delivered better returns on
more targeted investments across all three of our New Categories.
around our brands and innovation,
We have built a fast-growing portfolio of New Category products
and continuing to seek long-term in a short period of time with New Categories annual revenue now
exceeding £3.4 billion.
opportunities Beyond Nicotine.
Our focus on driving revenue growth and margin expansion will
continue, leveraging our deep cross-category consumer insights.
We aim to enhance our innovation pipeline by further investing in
The key building blocks of
our capabilities, our intellectual property, our people and our
the Quality Growth pillar are: science, driving an innovation-focused culture.
Our centres of excellence in Southampton, Trieste and Shenzhen
Inspiring New Category Innovations
continue to provide access to wider internal and external strategic
& Brands partnerships focused on developing consumer-relevant
premium propositions.
Managed Combustibles Transition
Three New Category product types underpin our efforts to Build
a Smokeless World:
Beyond Nicotine Foundations
Vapour
Our global Vapour brand, Vuse, is the #1 brand in the category
(in tracked channels). It plays a major role in providing smokers
Our commitments
with the opportunity to Switch to Better.
under Quality Growth:
Vapour revenue was down 5.1% to £1,721 million in 2024, largely
driven by a lack of enforcement of illegal flavoured single-use
Progressing toward quality, margin-
vapour products in the U.S. and a flavour ban in the province of
accretive growth in Smokeless Québec in Canada where a lack of enforcement has also led to
an increase in the use of illicit products.
FMC volume decline but expecting
Vapour was the largest contributor to New Categories usage
continued value delivery reaching 11.9 million adult consumers, adding 0.1 million in 2024.
Sensibly investing for the future + For more information on our
Vapour Products see page 28
Beyond Nicotine Heated Products
Our flagship Heated Product brand, glo, provides an alternative
to smoking that doesn't involve burning and, following scientific
studies, producing lower levels of certain toxicants than cigarettes.
Revenue for the category was down by 7.6%, due to the sale of our
Russian and Belarusian businesses last year. The momentum for
growth in Heated Products has been impacted by competitor
innovation and intensified activity in the below-weighted average
price segment.
However, while glo's performance has not met expectations,
our newly released innovations like Hyper Pro and veo, our non-
tobacco heated platform consumables, have strengthened our
pipeline and competitive position.
Hyper Pro is now present across 29 markets. The Group was the
first to introduce a distinct EasyView screen with HeatBoost
technology for better performance. Due to this improvement and
coupled with the revamp of our consumables portfolio, glo is now
in a stronger position to compete in the premium segment and
contribute to accelerating growth. glo continued to show early
signs of category volume share momentum vs 2023 in the top
markets, with volume share in the top HP markets declining 40 bps
to 16.7% vs 110 bps decline in 2023.
+ For more information on our
Heated Products see page 30
26
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Modern Oral Our aim is for the combustibles business Cannabis
Unlike inhalable products like Vapour or to deliver sustainable revenue, adjusted As a growing and exciting category for the
Heated Products, Modern Oral products gross margin and category contribution future, cannabis has significant potential
are different. Modern Oral products come growth. Sustainable pricing, digital for BAT’s development and progression of
in the form of tobacco-free nicotine integration and Revenue Growth Beyond Nicotine. The global legal
pouches that are placed under the lip so Management play a key role in delivering recreational cannabis market has grown,
that nicotine can be absorbed effectively. revenue growth. from around £5 billion (2019) to £12.1 billion
In 2024, Modern Oral was the fastest A product transformation programme (2023).2 It is predicted to continue growing
growing New Category, driven by is underway to enable a simpler and by 16%3 each year, with non-combustible
consumer acquisition – up 54.2%, reaching rationalised product portfolio to enable formats driving this category growth.
7.4 million adult consumers.1 adjusted gross margin growth. We believe this is signalling a shift away
Our refreshed Velo brand expression and As part of this, we continue to refine the from traditional smokable combustible
the launch of Grizzly Modern Oral boosted number of tobacco leaf grades, blends, cannabis formats into other, potentially
volume and revenue growth in the U.S. cigarette formats and stock keeping units less harmful, more progressive
(SKUs) in our portfolio. consumption methods.
The opportunities for these products in
markets with established oral nicotine To deliver category contribution growth, The regulatory environment and consumer
consumption and beyond, are plentiful – we will focus on marketing spend sentiment towards recreational cannabis
including in emerging markets. optimisation and on simplifying our are also evolving. From the legalisation of
combustibles portfolio to enable the delivery cannabis in Germany, to the U.S.
+ For more information on our of a managed combustibles transition. Department of Health and Human Services'
Modern Oral products see page 32 recommendation to the Drug Enforcement
+ For more information on our Administration to reschedule cannabis, we
Accelerating our progress
Combustible products see page 35 to 36 are seeing progress across the globe. Such
Our innovation ecosystem is designed
to deliver products that meet consumer Beyond Nicotine Foundations developments are essential to further
exploration of the category and we will
demands and bring value to our business. Wellbeing and Stimulation
continue to monitor the changes in the
In designing our products, we seek to Consumers are increasingly seeking
regulatory environment as it evolves.
assess their environmental impact and healthier lifestyles and ‘better-for-you’
ensure they are compliant, ready for global products that help them manage their daily As part of our strategic investment in 2021
market rollout. Most importantly, they wellbeing. We call this category Wellbeing into the Canadian cannabis company
must align with our A Better Tomorrow™ and Stimulation (W&S) and expect the Organigram, BAT established a joint-
vision through Building a Smokeless category to grow to £495 billion by 2030, Product Development Collaboration (PDC)
World and reducing the health impact from around £296 billion, according to Agreement and Centre of Excellence. The
of our business. most recent estimates.1 PDC was set up to leverage the expertise
of both organisations, to develop the next
To drive quality growth and transform Many of these products historically are
generation of non-combustible cannabis
faster, we will focus our resources on in common formats like pressed tablet
products. In 2024, the PDC team made
combining powerful innovations and world- supplements and sugar-based sports and
progress in this space with Organigram
leading brands. To deliver an ‘innovation energy drinks. Recently, however, there has
bringing new innovations to market
step change’, we will continue to use been a consumer shift towards products
through the launch of Edison Sonics
powerful consumer foresights and their that are less artificial, more enjoyable, have
gummies. The gummies feature new nano-
application to drive innovations that appeal greater functional efficacy, are easier to use
emulsion technology which enables quicker
to adult consumers. We will further and understand, and that provide for a wider
and more efficient absorption during
strengthen and differentiate our New range of functional benefits.
consumption, addressing a key consumer
Categories brands to profitably accelerate
After over a century in nicotine, BAT
our New Categories business and achieve pain point in edible technology.
has significant expertise in providing
significant scale in order to realise our vision. stimulation through enjoyable solutions BAT strengthened its partnership with
Managed Combustibles Transition supported by our science and regulatory Organigram in 2023 by signing an
We are committed to becoming a capability, alongside robust route-to- agreement for a further investment to
predominantly smokeless business, with market infrastructure. a value of CAD$125 million (£74 million)
an ambition to reach 50% of our revenue As a result, we are well positioned payable in three tranches between January
from Smokeless products by 2035. to explore the development of a W&S 2024 and February 2025. In 2024, the
Group paid two of the three tranches. As
The best choice any adult smoker can business by leveraging existing
part of this investment, Organigram have
make will always be quitting combustible capabilities and external partners.
established Jupiter, a strategic investment
tobacco products completely. Yet many Over the last two years, we have been pool, intended to be applied for emerging
do not. With only 10% of the world’s one piloting, growing and developing a opportunities within the cannabis space.
billion smokers currently using New functional wellbeing shots brand called Two investments have been made by
Category products, the long-term Ryde in Australia and Canada. In the second Organigram via Jupiter in 2024, including
opportunity for growth as we deliver on half of 2024, a commercial test was also one in Sanity Group, a leading German
our transformation is vast. initiated in the U.S. online via Amazon and medical cannabis company in which the
The continued performance of our in Texas retail. Group also has a direct equity interest.
combustibles business is key to delivering In addition to Ryde wellbeing shots, we are
Quality Growth and generating the funds building a W&S pipeline of products to + For more information on
Beyond Nicotine, see page 37
necessary to invest in New Categories and ensure sustained competitiveness to win in
Build a Smokeless World. this exciting category. This includes internal
scientific development of new products and
also working with Btomorrow Ventures
(BTV) to guide and support our investments Notes:
1. IRI/Circana Consulting
or potentially larger scale M&A in the future.
2. Euromonitor 2023 Market Sizing Data | Global.
3. Euromonitor 2023 Market Sizing Data | Global.
4. Euromonitor 2023 Market Sizing Data | Global.
27
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Quality Growth
Our Vapour Products
Overview
*†
Vapour products Vapour is the largest category of our
Smokeless products. Both in terms of its
global footprint, and the estimated 82
are battery-powered
million consumers who use Vapour
products1. These products are an attractive
devices that heat proposition to convert adult smokers to
reduced-risk*† Smokeless products.
Low barriers to entry and an absence of
e-liquids to produce
consistent regulatory frameworks lead
to a highly fragmented and competitive
an inhalable aerosol landscape.
Key challenges for the Vapour category
include regulatory risks, illicit trade and
(vapour).
the pace of innovation.
The Scientific Evidence
Evidence continues to emerge from the
Our leading, global Vapour public health community and academia
about the role of Vapour products as a
brand, Vuse, plays a major reduced-risk*† alternative to smoking.
role in providing smokers
with a reduced-risk*† In 2022, we conducted an innovative study
of Vuse, using a cross-sectional approach.
alternative to cigarettes. This provided a snapshot of the differences
in indicators of potential harm between
Vuse consumers and smokers. The findings
revealed that BAT's Vapour products
produce 99% less toxicants when
compared to cigarette smoke2, while the
laboratory cell tests also demonstrated
that our products don't cause
DNA mutations or promote cancer,
Vapour Top markets *** unlike cigarettes.3,4
the U.S., Canada, France, the UK,
In New Zealand, the introduction of Vapour
Spain, Poland and Germany. products has been associated with a
dramatic decrease in the daily smoking
rate5, with ASH New Zealand stating
Highlights that the country remains on track to
reach its 2025 smoke-free goal of <5%
63 of the population.6
BAT maintained global value
In our pursuit of accelerating towards
share leadership despite a
our purpose, in 2024, ‘BAT's Commitment
1.2 ppts decline vs 2023 to Number of markets where to Responsible Vaping Products’ was
published, unveiling a series of new
40.0% value share (in the Group’s Vapour products
ambitions for our Vapour devices
tracked channels) in our are sold supported by evidence-based solutions
to tackle some of the most pressing
Top Vapour markets.
societal concerns.
BAT maintained its value Notes:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk
share leadership position free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA regulation and
in the U.S., at 50.2%
no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these products without agency clearance.
(down 2.0 ppts vs 2023, ***Top Vapour markets are defined as the Top markets by industry revenue, being the U.S., Canada, France, the UK, Spain,
Poland and Germany and accounting for c.80% of global industry closed systems consumables revenue (being
in tracked channels). rechargeable closed systems and single-use products) in 2024. The Top markets were revised in 2024, with a reduction
in value share in respect of 2023 to 41.2%. Also in 2024, the Group changed from Marlin to Retail Scan Data for the U.S.
vapour market, with the Group's Vapour value share in 2023 rebased to 52.1%.
Consumer acquisition
1. Jerzyński, T. and Stimson, G.V. (2023), "Estimation of the global number of vapers: 82 million worldwide in 2021", Drugs, Habits and
Social Policy, Vol. 24 No. 2, pp. 91-103. Available at: www.doi.org/10.1108/DHS-07-2022-0028
up 0.1 million, reaching
2.Comparison with smoke from a scientific standard reference cigarette (approximately 9mg of tar) in terms of the
11.9 million. average of the 9 harmful components the World Health Organisation recommends to reduce in cigarette smoke.
3.Thorne, D., Crooks, I., Hollings, M., Seymour, A., Meredith, C., Gaҫa, M. The mutagenic assessment of an electronic-cigarette
and reference cigarette smoke using the Ames assay in strains TA98 and TA100. Mutation Research 2016, 812; 29-38.
Vapour volume down 5.9%
4.Breheny, D., Oke, O., Pant, K. & Gaça, M.D. Comparative tumor promotion assessment of e-cigarette and cigarettes using
the in vitro Bhas 42 cell transformation assay. Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis, 2017, Volume 58, Issue 4 p.
in a strong price environment
190-198; doi.org/10.1002/em.22091
(+3.3%), with revenue 2.6% 5.Snowdon, C., et al., Vaping Works. International Best Practises: United Kingdom, France, Canada and New Zealand.
Property Rights Alliance,2021. www.propertyrightsalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/PRA_VapingWorks.pdf
lower at constant rates 6.Action on Smoking and Health (ASH), Smoking rate continues record decline to only 6.8% daily use, Māori and Pacific
rates are also reduced. Action for Smokefree 2025, 2023.
of exchange. 7.Haswell, L.E., Gale, N., Brown, E. et al. Biomarkers of exposure and potential harm in exclusive users of electronic cigarettes
and current, former, and never smokers. Intern Emerg Med 18, 1359–1371 (2023). doi.org/10.1007/s11739-023-03294-9.
8.Bishop, E., East, N., F. Miazzi, Fiebelkorn, S., Breheny, D., Gaca, M. and Thorne, D. (2023). A contextualised e-cigarette
testing strategy shows flavourings do not impact lung toxicity in vitro. 380, pp.1–11. doi: doi.org/10.1016/
j.toxlet.2023.03.006.
28
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
In 2023, results from our innovative cross- We are continuing to challenge the FDA’s BAT maintained global Vapour value share
sectional clinical study7 showed that Marketing Denial Orders (MDOs) for Vuse leadership (in tracked channels) with a full-
exclusive Vuse users had significantly lower Alto’s Menthol and Mixed Berry products in year closed system value share of 40.0%
exposure to tobacco toxicants, and court and have obtained a permanent stay (down 1.2 ppts vs 2023) led by Vuse Alto.
favourable results for indicators linked of enforcement for Vuse Alto Menthol, We consolidated our position in all Top
to smoking-related diseases, compared allowing it to remain on the market. markets, with consumers of our Vapour
with smokers. Menthol variants account for 73% of total products up 0.1 million to 11.9 million.
Also in 2023, we published a laboratory Vuse consumables (2023: 65%).
study8 which showed flavoured e-liquid We believe that public health officials, Proportion of Vapour revenue
toxicity was >95% reduced when compared legislators, and regulators – especially by region in 2024
to cigarette smoke and concluded that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) –
(£m)
flavoured e-liquids do not increase the risk should be concerned about the continued
profile of well stewarded e-cigarettes. influx of illegal flavoured and single-use
vapour products into the U.S. market,
Regulation and PMTA
which we estimate accounts for 70%
The future of Tobacco Harm Reduction has
of the total U.S. Vapour market.
always depended on robust science and
ensuring that this science is accessible to It is unacceptable that these products,
audiences outside the scientific community marketed in youth-appealing flavours
is crucial. This need is growing stronger such as bubble gum and cotton candy,
than ever, and consumers deserve to continue to be sold.
understand the relative risk profiles We continue to call for appropriate
of these products. regulation and enforcement to tackle illicit
In addition, perceptions of nicotine continue products in the category, and we welcome
to evolve; however, many consumers – signs of increasing action, including:
and healthcare professionals – do not –The FDA increasing frequency of warning
adequately understand the risks associated letters, seizures and penalties;
with nicotine generally. 2024 2023
–Implementation of vapour directories £m £m
We strongly support a well-functioning in three states, with an additional
regulatory system within which regulatory 11 states having passed vapour directory U.S. 998 1,033
oversight leads to accelerated reductions and enforcement legislation, with AME 611 686
in underage tobacco use and in tobacco- staggered implementation up to
related harm. We are invested in that Q4 2025; and APMEA 112 93
system and are fully committed to –Continued signs of illicit products volume Total 1,721 1,812
those goals.
decline in Louisiana, the first state to
The tobacco industry is undergoing implement a vapour directory and We continue to have strong value share
transformational change. Smokeless enforcement legislation in October 2023, positions in the rechargeable sub-category.
technologies like Vapour, Modern Oral and with Vuse Alto capturing the majority Specifically, on a full-year basis in 2024:
Heated Products offer great potential for of the volume outflow back into the
moving more adult smokers to potentially legal segment. –In the U.S., the world's largest Vapour
less harmful alternatives. This change is market, we maintained leadership in
However, there is more to do and effective
underscored by the U.S. Food and Drug closed system value share (in tracked
regulation and enforcement of Vapour
Administration’s Premarket Tobacco channels) at 50.2%, down by 2.0 ppts.
products will remain a key focus to unlock
Product Application (PMTA) process. In 2024, revenue was down 3.5%, or 0.8%
the full potential of the category. Currently,
on a constant currency basis. Pricing in
PMTAs include, among other things, robust we believe there is a lack of enforcement
both consumables and devices during the
science packages composed of analytical, of the flavour ban in the province of Québec
year contributed to growth by 2.9% in
toxicological, pre-clinical, clinical, and in Canada and regarding the 2ml liquid tank
2024 and 20.4% in 2023, but was more
behavioural data to demonstrate that the limit in the UK, both of which continue to
than offset by lower consumables volume
marketing of a tobacco product is negatively impact the legitimate market.
(down 3.7% in 2024 and 6.6% in 2023),
“appropriate for the protection of the public
Performance Summary driven by the growth of illegal flavoured
health” and underpinned by science.
Vapour consumables volume declined 5.9% and single-use products.
We welcome the FDA’s marketing to 616 million units in 2024 (having grown –In AME, our Vapour volume declined 11.5%
authorisation for our Vuse Alto device 7.0% to 654 million units in 2023), impacted with revenue down 10.8%, largely driven
and tobacco flavour consumables, based by the lack of enforcement of illegal by Canada (discussed earlier), where
on a finding that marketing these products flavoured single-use Vapour products in volume declined 32%. The rechargeable
are appropriate for the protection of the U.S. and the impact of the flavour ban closed system device segment began to
public health. in the province of Québec in Canada. return to growth at industry level in
Europe with Vuse Go Reload, our new
rechargeable closed system, performing
well. We believe we are well-positioned to
capitalise on this momentum with global
leadership in the rechargeable closed
Vaping can benefit public health, segment, with value share of 59.9%.
Following the Mexican Government’s
given the substantial evidence decision to ban the sale of Vapour
products, Vuse will no longer be sold in
supporting the potential of vaping Mexico. We believe this decision is
counter to the goal of reducing smoking
rates, a goal we share. Smokeless
to reduce smoking’s [health] toll.
products, including Vapour devices, are
an effective way of helping smokers
Joint published statement from 15 past Presidents
of the Society of Research on Nicotine and Tobacco1 switch away from cigarettes.
–In APMEA, total Vapour consumables
Note: volume grew strongly by 19.1%, with
1. D. Balfour, N. Benowitz, S. Colby, D. Hatsukami, H. Lando, S. Leischow, C. Lerman, R. Mermelstein, R. Niaura, K. revenue up 19.6%, driven by South Korea
Perkins, O. Pomerleau, N. Rigotti, G. Swan, K. Warner, R. West, “Balancing Consideration of the Risks and Benefits and New Zealand.
of E-Cigarettes”, American Journal of Public Health 111, no. 9 (September 1, 2021): pp. 1661-1672.
29
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Quality Growth
Our Heated Products
Overview
*
Heated Products (HPs) use heat Heated Products offer the most familiar
route for smokers to adopt a reduced-risk*†,
to generate a nicotine-containing Smokeless product.
Our latest glo devices, Hyper Pro and Hyper,
aerosol, which the user inhales. utilise induction heating to externally heat our
tobacco and non-tobacco consumables that
contain nicotine to a specific temperature
This category includes Tobacco range. With Hyper Pro having launched in
2024, the evolution in our innovation and
Heated Products (THP) and Herbal design is clear, offering adult consumers a
more differentiated device, with new digital
Products for Heating (HPH).
features. As we continue to build glo as a
strong and consistent global brand, we must
transform our product portfolio through our
Within HPs, because the tobacco or robust innovation pipeline.
herbal substrate is heated instead The Scientific Evidence*
of burned, the resulting aerosol When tobacco is burned by combustion
comprises mainly water, glycerol, at over 900ºC, the smoke produced is
nicotine and flavours – different incredibly complex with over 7,500
individual chemicals present, of which
to cigarette smoke.
150 chemicals are known to be harmful,
and more than 60 are known carcinogens.
In contrast, HPs heat natural material,
including tobacco or other ingredients like
rooibos, to much lower temperatures
(below 400ºC).
Due to the heating, as opposed to burning,
HPs are considered reduced risk* compared
to continued smoking for those who
HP Top markets **
switch completely.
Japan, South Korea, Italy, Germany, In 2018, Public Health England***, while
Greece, Hungary, Poland, Romania highlighting the need for more research,
and the Czech Republic. found that “compared with cigarettes,
heated tobacco products are likely to
expose users and bystanders to lower
Highlights levels of particulate matter, and potentially
harmful compounds.”1
33 More long-term studies are needed on HPs
glo HP category volume
and in 2021 we conducted a year-long
share down 40 bps in clinical study2 to evaluate the reduced-risk
potential of glo. It found that smokers who
Top markets vs 2023 Number of markets where
switched from cigarettes to the exclusive
to reach 16.7%. the Group’s Heated Products use of glo significantly reduced their
are sold exposure to certain toxicants and
glo consumer acquisition indicators of potential harm related to
several smoking-related diseases, in some
up 1.6 million reaching
measures to a level found in participants
10.2 million. who had stopped smoking entirely.
glo consumable volume
down 11.6%, with the industry
volume up 12%, with our
performance impacted by
the sale of our businesses
in Russia and Belarus
partway through 2023. Notes:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk
free and are addictive.
glo revenue declined by 7.6%.
** Top HP markets are defined as the Top markets (excl. Russia) by industry revenue. Top markets are Japan, South Korea,
Italy, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Romania and the Czech Republic. These markets account for 80% of global HP
industry revenue in 2024. The Top markets were revised in 2024, with a reduction in volume share in respect of 2023
to 17.1%.
***Public Health England (PHE) was replaced in Oct 2021 by the UK Health Security Agency and Office for Health
Improvement and Disparities.
1. McNeill A, Brose LS, Calder R, Bauld L, Robson D. Evidence review of e-cigarettes and heated tobacco products 2018.
A report commissioned by Public Health England. London: Public Health England, 2018.
2. Gale, N., McEwan, M., Hardie, G., Proctor, C.J. and Murphy, J. (2022). Changes in biomarkers of exposure and biomarkers
of potential harm after 360 days in smokers who either continue to smoke, switch to a tobacco heating product or quit
smoking. Internal and Emergency Medicine. doi:doi.org/10.1007/s11739-022-03062-1.
30
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Designed with Purpose Performance Summary Proportion of HP revenue
Hilo and Hilo Plus are the newest additions Impacted by the sale of the Group's
by region in 2024
to our flagship glo range of Heated Products. businesses in Russia and Belarus in 2023
Hilo is a one-piece device featuring an (which negatively impacted performance (£m)
innovative AMOLED EasyViewTM screen for by 2.5 billion sticks due to the timing of the
consumers to stay in control of their device sale partway through that year), total
usage and monitor its battery life. consumable volume declined 11.6% to
20.9 billion sticks in 2024 having declined
Consisting of two pieces, Hilo Plus has a
1.3% (to 23.7 billion sticks) in 2023.
charging case and a heating device. The
heating device is known as the In 2024, glo HP category volume share
EasySwitchTM heating pen, which can be in the Top markets declined 40 bps
removed from the charging case and used to 16.7% as growth in Poland and the Czech
independently for a maximum of two Republic and stabilisation in Italy was offset
sessions, or can be used while docked in by the highly competitive markets in Japan
the charging case. Additionally, the pen can and South Korea and the deprioritisation of
be inserted or removed from the case the super-slim format in both markets.
during the heating session without Revenue declined 7.6% to £921 million
disrupting the session. (2023: down 6.0% to £996 million), largely
Hilo builds on Hyper Pro, which was due to the sale of the Group's businesses 2024 2023
introduced to address the evolving in Russia and Belarus partway through £m £m
preferences of consumers of 2023 which acted as a comparative drag U.S. 0 0
Heated Products. on performance of £78 million in 2024 and
by £75 million in 2023. Excluding the impact AME 443 505
Featuring our HeatBoost™ technology,
of the relative movements in sterling, at
Hyper Pro delivers superior taste APMEA 478 491
constant rates of exchange revenue
satisfaction, a step up on immediacy, more
declined 2.5% in 2024, compared to a Total 921 996
intense boost taste mode and a longer
decline of 2.5% in 2023.
session, compared to earlier Hyper devices.
Paired with our upgraded blended tobacco In AME, which has seen strong industry In APMEA, where the most mature HP
stick range and our veo tobacco-free herbal volume growth of 9% in 2024 (2023: 17%), markets are, our consumable volume was
stick novel flavour range with capsule, it our consumable volume declined 24.6% to down 0.2%, having grown 4.9% in 2023.
delivers an enhanced experience compared 8.3 billion sticks, having decreased 7.5% in Revenue was down 2.8% (2023: down
to other Hyper products. 2023. The decline in both 2024 and 2023 13.2%) yet grew 5.6% (2023: 7.3% decrease)
was largely due to the sale of the Group's at constant exchange, driven by the
Hyper Pro is a smart and intelligent device businesses in Russia and Belarus, which innovations and activation of commercial
equipped with a progressive EasyView™ negatively affected volume, compared to plans in Japan.
display for interactive and intuitive control
the respective prior period, by 2.7 billion Pricing was a positive contributor to the
of the experience through a simple screen
sticks in 2024 (and 2.5 billion sticks in regional HP performance by 5.8% in 2024,
interface displays the selected taste mode,
2023). This more than offset higher volume having been a negative impact in 2023
session progress and battery power. The
in Spain and Greece. by 12.2% due to the price repositioning
device has better palm fit and convenience
in use with a TasteSelect dial enabling one Accordingly, in 2024, revenue declined in that period.
move to open the shutter and select the by 12.2%, or 10.4% at constant rates of In Japan, glo’s volume share of total HP
taste mode. This is also combined with the exchange. This compares to 2023 which and combustibles was 16.7%, down 40 bps
convenience of a faster charge than other grew by 2.3% (or 3.0% at constant rates on 2023 (2023: 17.1%), as consumers
Hyper products. of exchange). continue to switch to reduced-risk*
Hyper Pro is now present across AME now represents 39.9% of our global alternatives to cigarettes, with our
29 markets. veo™, our first brand to launch HP volume. HP category volume share at 17.8%, down
50 bps from 18.3% in 2023.
a non-tobacco consumables range,
continues to outperform peers and is now
in 20 markets.
We continue to expand our geographic
footprint with glo now available in
33 markets.
Using tobacco in forms that don’t burn,
like smokeless tobacco or heat-not-
burn products, will reduce your
exposure to harmful combusted
chemicals, including carbon monoxide.
Canadian Centre for Addiction and Mental Health
Lower Risk Nicotine User Guidelines, 20211
Note:
1. Canadian Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (2021). 7 tips to lower your risk when using nicotine. Available at: intrepidlab.ca/en/Documents/Quick%20Tips.pdf
31
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Quality Growth
Our Modern Oral Products
Overview
In recent years, a new The Modern Oral category has a clear
trajectory for growth in markets with
category of Modern Oral established oral nicotine consumption. The
U.S. and the Nordics are prime examples of
*† such markets, as adult consumers already
products has emerged.
have the experience of Traditional Oral
products.
However, the key challenge in unlocking the
These come in the form of tobacco-free category's potential in new markets relates to
how the oral nicotine product is used, which
nicotine pouches that are placed is different to how nicotine has previously
under the lip so that nicotine can been consumed, typically through inhalation.
Building a portfolio of strong brands and
be effectively absorbed.
products/ranges to accelerate adult
consumer adoption is essential to
establishing a leading, global Modern
Oral business.
The Scientific Evidence*
Modern Oral nicotine pouches build upon
the extensive scientific evidence available
for snus, including long-term studies1,2
which demonstrate that snus use is
associated with less risk of many diseases
compared with cigarette smoking.
Modern Oral products, however, are designed
to offer adult consumers an improved,
Modern Oral reduced-risk*† alternative, with many
Top markets ** Modern Oral products manufactured as
tobacco-free.
the U.S., Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Laboratory scientific studies for our
Modern Oral products show they produce
Switzerland, Poland
less than 1% of the toxicants found in
and the UK cigarette smoke3 and lower levels than
snus4 – a Traditional Oral tobacco product
which is already regarded as a reduced-
Highlights risk*† alternative to smoking.
Toxicology tests assessing the biological
Continued strong global 44 effects of our Modern Oral products also
show they have reduced effects relative to
volume growth (up 55.0%), cigarettes and snus5.
with adult consumer numbers Number of markets where
up 2.6 million to 7.4 million. the Group’s Modern Oral
Products are sold
Category volume share
in Top markets was 28.4%,
up 1.3 ppts, driven by
an increase in the highly
competitive U.S. market.
Notes:
Strong volume and revenue 1. Ramström L, Borland R, Wikmans T. Patterns of Smoking and Snus Use in Sweden: Implications for Public Health. Int J
Environ Res Public Health. 2016 Nov 9;13(11):1110. doi: 10.3390/ijerph13111110. PMID: 27834883; PMCID: PMC5129320.
growth in the U.S., led by Velo 2. Sohlberg, T., Wennberg, P. Snus cessation patterns - a long-term follow-up of snus users in Sweden. Harm Reduct J 17,
62 (2020). doi.org/10.1186/s12954-020-00405-z
and Grizzly Modern Oral. 3. Gaca, Marianna, et al. "Bridging: accelerating regulatory acceptance of reduced-risk tobacco and nicotine
products." Nicotine and Tobacco Research 24.9 (2022): 1371-1378.
Volume share leadership 4. Azzopardi, David, Chuan Liu, and James Murphy. "Chemical characterization of tobacco-free 'modern' oral nicotine
pouches and their position on the toxicant and risk continuums." Drug and chemical toxicology 45.5 (2022): 2246-2254.
in Modern Oral in AME 5. East, N., et al. "A screening approach for the evaluation of tobacco-free ‘modern oral’ nicotine products using Real
Time Cell Analysis." Toxicology Reports 8 (2021): 481-488, and Bishop, E., et al. "An approach for the extract generation
at 64.7%, with continued and toxicological assessment of tobacco-free ‘modern’oral nicotine pouches." Food and chemical toxicology
145 (2020): 111713.
market leadership (through * Based upon the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not
risk free and are addictive.
Velo) in 21 European markets. ** Top Oral and Modern Oral markets are defined as the Top markets by industry revenue, being the U.S., Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, Switzerland, Poland and the UK and accounting for c. 90% of global industry Modern Oral revenue in 2023. The
Top markets were updated in 2024, with a revision in 2023 volume share to 27.1% (Group) and 64.7% (AME). Also in 2024,
AME revenue up 40.3%, the Group changed from Marlin to Retail Scan Data for the U.S. Modern Oral market, with the Group's Modern Oral
volume share in 2023 rebased to 4.5%.
with volume up 50.2%.
***Source: based on NielsenIQ volume share of Total Oral.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA regulation and
no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these products without agency clearance.
32
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Published in 2022, results from our In line with the Group's sustainability As the Modern Oral category continues
innovative cross-sectional clinical study ambitions, Velo plastic cans are being to grow and becomes more established in
showed that exclusive Velo users had upgraded to use single polymer plastics, Europe, we continue to see strong growth
substantially lower exposure to tobacco with the use of bio-based materials also in adult consumer numbers. In Sweden,
toxicants, and significantly better results being trialled to achieve International Velo is the largest (by volume share) of any
for indicators linked to smoking-related Sustainability and Carbon Certification. snus or Modern Oral nicotine pouch brand***.
diseases, compared with smokers. In 2023,
Performance Summary
in a study where daily smokers were Proportion of Modern Oral
2024 maintained the momentum from
provided with Velo, the majority of 2023 with growth in volume and value. revenue by region in 2024
participants significantly reduced their
Volume was up 55.0% to 8.3 billion (£m)
daily cigarette use.
pouches, having grown 33.6% to 5.4 billion
On the basis of our evidence and informed pouches in 2023.
by the wealth of independent evidence
Revenue increased 46.6% to £790 million
regarding snus, switching completely to
(2023: up 35% to £539 million). Excluding
Modern Oral products can be expected to
the impact of foreign exchange, this was
reduce the risk of smoking related disease
when compared to continued smoking.*† an increase of 51% in 2024 and 39% in 2023,
as price/mix was down 2.9%, after the
Our Products increase of 5.4% in 2023.
Our Modern Oral products are white in Volume share of the Modern Oral category
colour and contain high-purity nicotine, in our Top markets was 28.4%, up
water and other high-quality food-grade 1.3 ppts compared to 2023. This was driven
ingredients, including plant-based fibres, by the U.S. where our volume share of
flavouring and sweeteners. Modern Oral increased by 2.1 ppts with
Originating in Scandinavia, Velo is now a volume up 234% to 991 million pouches
leading global brand of nicotine pouches. (2023: down 1.3% to 297 million pouches).
2024 2023
These typically appeal to a broader Revenue in the U.S. increased in 2024 to £m £m
audience than Traditional Oral tobacco £80 million, an increase of 223% (or 232%
because of their attractive price at constant rates), driven by the traction of U.S. 80 25
positioning. With comparatively lower our refreshed Velo brand expression and AME 676 482
excise rates (versus Traditional Oral and Grizzly Modern Oral roll-out.
combustibles), Modern Oral generally has APMEA 34 32
While we await the outcome of our PMTA
higher margins than Traditional Oral. Total 790 539
submission for our successful European
Our Velo product range spans across product, Velo 2.0, we are encouraged that
tobacco, mint and fruit flavours and are we have started to reinvigorate our In APMEA our volume grew 16.8% and our
sold in various nicotine strengths, from performance in 2024. revenue grew 5.7% (being 10.0% at
3mg to 17mg of nicotine per pouch. constant rates), fuelled by robust growth
The Group reinvested in trade activation
Building on the growing trend of Traditional in 2023, leading to a decline in net pricing from Global Travel Retail and continued
Oral consumers moving to Modern Oral, of 30.5% and revenue down to £25 million strong Emerging Market volume
we launched Grizzly Modern Oral in the U.S. in that year. performance in Pakistan (up 27.3%). Our
in 2024. insights and foresights in these markets
In our Top markets outside the U.S., we give us confidence in our ability to unlock
We are also delivering a step change in maintained volume share leadership, which the Emerging Markets opportunity for
Modern Oral manufacturing. Truly living was down 10 bps at 64.7%. Modern Oral going forward.
our ethos, our Modern Oral factory in
Pécs, Hungary, put together a bold plan In AME, we maintained volume share We continue to seek opportunities and
to implement food industry standards leadership in 21 European markets. Revenue develop the category in other markets as
for Modern Oral manufacturing. increased by 40.3% (2023: up 41.5%) or we believe that Modern Oral is an exciting
44.4% (2023: up 44.6%) at constant rates longer-term opportunity to commercialise
With a cross-functional team across of exchange. Price/mix was a negative drag reduced-risk products*†.
quality, production, engineering and EHS of 4.6% in 2024 having been positive by
teams delivering technical changes and 8.1% in 2023. The higher revenue was
process improvements, Pécs became the therefore largely driven by volume growth
first site in BAT’s history to obtain the (up 50.2% in 2024 and 36.5% in 2023), with
ISO 22000 certification for food safety Sweden, the UK, Norway, Austria and
management systems. Finland all performing well as the Modern
We have also built and commissioned a Oral category continued to grow.
new facility in Trieste, Italy that will further
enhance our capabilities and provide
additional capacity (in Modern Oral and
Heated Products).
Switching from cigarettes to nicotine
pouches could represent a reduction in
health risks for a person who smokes.
German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR)1
Note:
1. Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung, 2022. Health Risk Assessment of Nicotine Pouches: Updated BfR Opinion No. 023/2022 of 7 October 2022, BfR-Stellungnahmen. Bundesinst. für
Risikobewertung. www.doi.org/10.17590/20220204-105615
33
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Quality Growth
Our Traditional Oral Products
Value share of Traditional Oral was down
The most common products 40 bps (2023: up 40 bps), while volume
share was down 40 bps (2023: down
20 bps).
in Traditional Oral are largely
Outside the U.S., being 3.1% of the Group's
revenue from the category, volume was
moist oral tobacco popular in
3.3% lower in 2024, driven by Sweden
where the Group’s volume share (as a
the U.S., with our main brands proportion of Total Oral) declined 90 bps
(2023: declined 50 bps). This decline was
being Grizzly and Kodiak. due to the launch of the Lundgrens Modern
Oral product and higher pricing of Granit
to drive value.
These products are Proportion of Traditional Oral
less finely ground than
revenue by region in 2024
another Traditional
Oral product referred (£m)
to as Swedish-style
snus. Both of these
Traditional Oral
products are available
in loose form, as well
as in pre-packed
pouches.
2024 2023
£m £m
U.S. 1,058 1,127
AME 34 36
Our Products Performance Summary
APMEA — —
We also sell a range of Traditional Oral Total revenue decreased 6.0% to
products, including Swedish-style snus £1,092 million (2023: down 3.8% to Total 1,092 1,163
and American moist snuff, available in loose £1,163 million).
tobacco form or as pre-packed pouches.
Translational foreign exchange impacted
Due to the ongoing U.S. market dynamics,
We have long sold snus in Sweden and
both years, being a headwind in 2024
as discussed on page 293, the Group has
Norway through our Fiedler & Lundgren
of 2.6% (compared to a headwind of 0.7%
recognised an impairment charge of
business, whose brands include Granit
in 2023) due to the relative movement of
£646 million in respect of the carrying value
and Mocca; and in the U.S. we market snus
sterling. On a constant rates basis, revenue
of Camel Snus. This reflects the reduced
under the Camel brand. Our American
fell 3.4% in 2024 having declined 3.1%
sales as consumers switch to alternative
moist snuff products include our flagship
in 2023.
products including Modern Oral.
Grizzly brand, as well as the premium
In 2024, volume was lower (down 8.2%) than
moist snuff brand Kodiak. Commencing 1 January 2025, Camel Snus
the prior year (at 6.1 billion stick equivalents),
will be assigned a 20-year useful economic
We remain committed to offering
following a decline of 10.3% in 2023. While
potentially reduced-risk*† products that help life and will commence amortisation from
pricing remained strong in both years (2024:
that date which approximates to
adult smokers migrate from combustible
+4.8%; 2023: +7.2%), this was more than
£23 million annually.
cigarettes while meeting the evolving needs
offset by the volume decline.
of other adult nicotine consumers.
In the U.S., which accounts for 96.9% of
the Group’s revenue from Traditional Oral,
volume declined 8.9% in 2024 (2023: down
10.9%). The higher decline rate in 2023 was
in part due to the normalisation of
inventory levels (being a drag of 1.7%). Both
2024 and 2023 were negatively impacted
by strong macro-economic headwinds
leading to downtrading, accelerated cross-
category switching (notably to Modern
Notes:
Oral) and reduced consumption. * Based on the weight of evidence and assuming
a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These
products are not risk free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo,
Grizzly, Kodiak and Camel Snus are subject to FDA
regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to
these products without agency clearance.
34
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our Combustible Products
Change in cigarette value share
We are focused on driving
in Top markets* (bps)
-20 bps
value from our strategic brands of
Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall,
2024 -20 -20
Rothmans, Newport (U.S.), Natural
2023 -40 -40
American Spirit (U.S.) and Camel Definition: Annual change in cigarette value
share – being the value of cigarettes bought by
consumers of the Group’s brands in Top markets*
(U.S.), which now account for 67%
as a proportion of the total value of cigarettes bought
by consumers in those markets (see page 391).
of our combustible volume.
Change in cigarette volume share
in Top markets* (bps)
20 bps
Our combustibles business is
founded on understanding and
meeting the preferences of adult
smokers in all parts of the world 2024 40 20
2023 flat
Definition: Annual change in cigarette volume
share – being the number of cigarettes bought by
consumers of the Group’s brands in Top markets*
as a proportion of the total cigarettes bought by
consumers in those markets (see page 391).
In other markets in 2024, volume growth in
Highlights Value and Volume Share
Türkiye, Brazil, Indonesia, Pakistan,
Group cigarette value share was 20 bps
Venezuela and Mexico was more than
lower in 2024 (2023: down 40 bps), mainly
offset by lower volume in exit markets,
Group value share was driven by the U.S. (down 30 bps). This,
notably in Africa and Bangladesh.
combined with lower cigarette value share
down 20 bps, as APMEA (flat)
in Germany, Romania and Bangladesh, was In 2023, volume was down in Pakistan,
and AME (flat) were more partially offset by higher value share in driven by significant excise increases.
Brazil, Mexico and Pakistan. This was partly offset by volume growth
than offset by the U.S.,
in Bangladesh, Brazil and Türkiye.
Group cigarette volume share was up
down 30 bps. 20 bps in 2024 (2023: flat vs 2022). In 2024, In the U.S., industry volume declined 8.4%,
the Group grew volume share in Brazil, having declined 7.5% in 2023 on a sales to
Volume share 20 bps higher Bangladesh, Pakistan and Mexico. wholesaler basis. Our combustibles revenue
than 2023. However, this was offset by Germany, in the U.S. declined 6.7% (or 4.1% at
Romania and Japan. In 2023, the Group constant rates of exchange), driven by
grew volume share in Bangladesh, Ukraine, 10.1% lower volume (2023: down 11.4% to
Strong price/mix +5.3%.
Mexico, Italy, Spain, Pakistan, France, 52 billion).
Colombia and Germany. However, this was U.S. premium volume share was up 50 bps,
offset by Japan, Brazil, South Korea, the driven by Newport soft-pack and Natural
37
U.S., Switzerland, Australia, the Czech American Spirit.
Republic, Canada and Romania.
The U.S. combustibles market continues to
Volume Performance be negatively affected by macro-economic
Number of cigarette In 2024, Group cigarette volume was down pressures impacting consumer behaviour,
factories in 35 countries 8.9%, at 505 billion sticks (2023: down 8.2% with a growth in the deep-discounted
to 555 billion), with the total cigarette category (in which the Group is not
market continuing to decline at 2%. present) and the increase of solus-usage of
alternative nicotine products, driven by the
Both years were impacted by the disposal
growth of illicit single-use Vapour products.
of the Group's businesses in Russia and
Belarus partway through 2023. Volume Cigarette volume in the U.S was also
declined in the U.S. in both 2024 and 2023 negatively impacted by the flavour
Note:
* Top cigarette markets are defined as the Top cigarette (discussed below), with 2024 also ban in California in 2023 and the increase
markets by industry revenue, being the U.S., Japan, negatively impacted by Sudan (as the of solus-usage of alternative nicotine
Bangladesh, Brazil, Germany, Pakistan, Mexico and ongoing conflict affected the supply chain). products, driven by the growth of illicit
Romania, accounting for c.60% of global industry
single-use Vapour products.
cigarettes revenue in 2024.
35
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Quality Growth
Our Combustible Products
Continued
Regulation –Kent’s value share was up 10 bps Proportion of combustibles
On 15 January 2025, in the final days of the (2023: 10 bps down) as growth in Brazil revenue by region in 2024
outgoing Biden administration, the FDA and Romania was partly offset by lower
issued a proposed product standard value share in Japan. Volume was down (£m)
whereby the agency would limit nicotine 1.2% (2023: down 9.4%) due to the
levels in cigarettes following a two-year negative impact of the sale of the Group's
effective date from publication of any final businesses in Russia and Belarus partway
rule. The proposed rule is currently subject through 2023. Kent increased volume in
to public comment, but may be de- Türkiye, Poland and Brazil, which was
prioritised by the Trump administration as partly offset by lower volume in Japan;
it considers all proposed regulations –Lucky Strike’s value share grew 70 bps
advanced by the Biden administration. (2023: up 40 bps), as growth in the U.S.,
Thus, it is not known whether or when this Bangladesh, Brazil and Japan more than
proposed rule will be finalised, and, if offset lower value share in Germany.
adopted, whether the final rule will be the Volume declined 4.8% (2023: up 16.7%)
same as or similar to the proposed rule. driven by the sale of our business in
Under the Biden administration, the FDA Russia partway through 2023. This more
announced its intention to issue a final rule than offset higher volume in Bangladesh,
to ban menthol as a characterising flavour the U.S., Brazil and Indonesia; 2024 2023
in cigarettes. In January 2025, the Trump –Rothmans’ value share was down 20 bps £m £m
administration has withdrawn the rule (2023: flat) driven by lower value share in U.S. 9,094 9,744
from the Office of Management and Brazil, Romania and Pakistan. Volume was
Budget and it is currently held pending the 13.3% lower (2023: 14.6% down) partly AME 7,039 7,614
new Trump administration’s reconsideration due to the sale of our business in Russia APMEA 4,552 4,750
of regulations advanced by the Biden with volume lower in Poland, Romania,
administration. Ukraine and Nigeria. This more than offset Total 20,685 22,108
We have been clear that a ban on menthol higher volume in Brazil and Italy; and
cigarettes would harm, not benefit, –Pall Mall’s value share was 30 bps lower Revenue is affected by the relative
public health. (2023: 30 bps down) as growth in movement of sterling against the Group's
Published science1 indicates that: Pakistan, Mexico and Romania was more reporting currencies. In 2024, this was a
than offset by lower value share in the translational foreign exchange headwind
–menthol cigarettes do not present any
U.S. and Germany. Volume was down of 4.8%, compared to a headwind of 3.2%
greater risk of smoking-related disease
7.0% (2023: down 15.9%) as higher in 2023.
compared to non-menthol cigarettes; and
volume in Pakistan was more than In both 2024 and 2023, revenue was
–the weight of scientific evidence does not offset by lower volume in the U.S. and impacted by a combination of lower
indicate that menthol cigarettes adversely Chile, and the impact of exit markets. comparative performance from Russia and
affect initiation, dependence, or cessation.
The Group’s U.S. domestic strategic the sale of the Group's businesses in Russia
Additionally, evidence from other markets combustible portfolio was 20 bps down: and Belarus partway through 2023, which
where similar bans have been imposed in aggregate acted as a negative drag on
–Newport value share decreased 20 bps
demonstrates no impact on overall cigarette performance by £389 million in 2024 and
(2023: down 50 bps), while volume
consumption because smokers switch to £380 million in 2023.
declined 11.1% (2023: down 14.7%);
non-menthol cigarettes, turn to the illicit
After adjusting for the currency headwinds,
market, and resort to product tampering. –Natural American Spirit performed
revenue from combustibles at constant
well with value share up 10 bps
We believe that a ban on menthol is rates of exchange was down 1.6% to
(2023: up 30 bps). Volume was 10.0%
contrary to the FDA’s stated goal of £21,748 million, having declined by 0.8%
down (2023: down 3.5%); and
reducing the health effects of tobacco use. in 2023.
Our U.S. business will continue –Camel’s value share declined 30 bps in
In 2025, we expect significant combustible
to participate in public discourse and will the U.S. (2023: down 50 bps) with volume
headwinds to impact performance in
likely challenge this unsupported and 13.2% down (2023: 14.0% down), driven
APMEA, particularly in Australia where new
counterproductive rule in court if, and when, by competitive pricing pressures.
tobacco regulations come into effect in
it is released. Volume of other tobacco products (OTP) April 2025 and in Bangladesh following a
In December 2022, the sale of all tobacco declined 11.2% to 13.0 billion sticks substantial increase in excise and VAT.
products with characterising flavours equivalent (2023: 11.0% decline), being 3%
Amortisation of the U.S.
(including menthol) other than tobacco of the Group's combustible portfolio
Combustibles Brands
was banned in the State of California. This (2023: 3%).
Following a review of the Group's
has negatively impacted the Group's
Revenue performance expectations in the U.S.
volumes in both 2023 and 2024 in the U.S.
In 2024, revenue from combustibles reflecting continuing macro-economic
and the Group will continue to monitor the
was down 6.4% to £20,685 million headwinds, with effect from 1 January 2024,
impact in the coming periods.
(2023: £22,108 million, down 4.0%). Pricing the Group’s indefinite-lived combustible
Strategic Brand Performance in both years was strong with price/mix in brands are being amortised on a straight-
In 2024, strategic cigarette brands’ value 2024 at 5.3% and 7.5% in 2023. However, line basis over periods not exceeding
share was flat (2023: down 30 bps): this was offset by the decrease in volume 30 years.
–Dunhill’s overall value share was up 10 bps in both years as described earlier. In 2024, and the immediate years following
(2023: flat) as growth in Brazil and this change in accounting estimate, the
Pakistan was partly offset by reductions increase in annual amortisation expense
in Romania. Volume was 0.9% lower was £1.4 billion.
(2023: up 0.9%), largely driven by South
Korea and our exit from Mali; Note:
1. Scientific evidence available at www.regulations.gov/
comment/FDA-2021-N-1349-175111
36
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Beyond Nicotine
As well as offering less
*†
risky nicotine-based
alternatives, we see
a new range of non-nicotine-
based products forming
an expanding part
of our portfolio.
and commercial partnerships with BAT,
Highlights
including new investments in a U.S.-based
adaptogens and nootropics beverage
As consumers increasingly seek products
company, Hop Wtr Inc., and a German AI-
offering Wellbeing and Stimulation
powered sustainable packaging company,
characteristics, our venturing unit,
one.five.
Btomorrow Ventures (BTV), is partnering
to strengthen our positioning in this market. As discussed in note 27 in the Notes on
the Accounts on page 336, in November
Our well-established market research has
2023, the Group announced the signing
given us a detailed understanding of
of an agreement for a further proposed
consumer needs, allowing us to invest in,
investment in Organigram of
acquire and develop natural ingredients
CAD$125 million (£74 million), payable
and new delivery formats that satisfy
across three tranches, with approvals
these needs.
received from the shareholders
We believe our supply chain strengths and of Organigram on 18 January 2024.
trade market capabilities mean that, when
On 24 January 2024 and 30 August 2024,
ready, we can deliver associated products
BAT made the first and second tranche
to consumers at speed and scale.
investments of CAD$42 million (£24 million)
BTV has completed 28 investments since its each respectively. The final tranche is due
launch in 2020, and continues to invest on 28 February 2025. The Group’s equity
in innovative, consumer-led brands, new position at 31 December 2024 was c.30.6%
sciences and technologies, and sustainability and is anticipated to rise to c.36.65%
to support the Group’s transformational (restricted to 30% voting rights) once the
strategy for A Better Tomorrow™. final tranche has been completed. + Find out more at
In 2024, BTV launched a new £200 million The Group has continued to explore Beyond www.btomorrowv.com
fund, continuing its commitment to Nicotine organically through our subsidiary,
minority investments, with a focus on the The Water Street Collective Ltd, with a
Wellbeing and Stimulation space. This series of pilot launches of our own
funding is in addition to the original £150 functional shot brand, Ryde. This offers a Notes:
million fund in 2020. scientifically formulated range of Energy, * Based on the weight of evidence and assuming
Throughout 2024, BTV has continued to Focus and Relax products in three markets a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These
products are not risk free and are addictive.
support its portfolio of companies with a – Australia, Canada and the U.S. † Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo,
number of follow-on investment rounds Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA
as to these products without agency clearance.
37
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Strategic Pillar Overview
An Exciting and Winning Company
Dynamic Business A Better Tomorrow™
At BAT, our people are the heart of our business and they are key
to driving our purpose. This is why our focus on culture
transformation is so important.
The Dynamic Business pillar envisages
Our 2024 people strategy is centred around three ambitions
a future-fit, data-driven organisation;
for 2030:
ensuring we are efficient and effective –enabling tomorrow’s success for our business and colleagues;
in all of our operations. –creating an amazing people experience; and
–making BAT the place to be for current and prospective talent.
This will ensure that we deliver financial
This is complemented by our six corporate Values, which act as a
flexibility to invest in our business, people compass to ensure our people have a clear understanding of what
is expected of them to help us Build a Smokeless World™. The
and products to win in a fast-changing
Values are:
environment and deliver superior returns
–Truly inclusive
to our investors.
–Empowered through trust
–Stronger together
–Love our consumer
The key building blocks of
–Passion to win
the Dynamic Business pillar are:
–Do the right thing.
Exciting, Winning Company We purposefully designed our people strategy to ensure we can be
ready for future changes and respond to consumer needs at pace.
Operational Excellence
Our strategy is anchored around five bold intentions which we
expect to be owned and driven by every people leader at BAT.
Capital Effectiveness
People Strategy
Our commitments under
Dynamic Business:
Creating a diverse, inclusive and
people-oriented place to work
Being data-driven and delivering
operational excellence/cost management
Focused on investors’ returns
Shaping a performance-driven & dynamic organisation
As a responsible employer, we are focusing on the link between
accountability, performance and reward to ensure we meet the
needs of our business and our people. We also regularly assess the
design of our organisation to make sure it is adaptable, enabling us
to access and develop the capabilities we need to help deliver
our purpose.
Our efforts to create a great experience for our people have been
recognised externally, and we are proud that we have won awards
for being an employer of choice – including recognition in 2024 as
a Global Top Employer for the seventh consecutive year.
Nurturing relevant capabilities
From global graduates to senior hires, we are committed to
attracting, developing and retaining talent to drive our
transformation agenda - whether through in-house development,
assignments, or hiring new skills. We have invested significantly in
our learning and development programmes to ensure they are
impactful and deliver the capabilities we require.
38
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
In 2024, we launched three new global Operational Excellence In line with our corporate commitment
programmes focused on developing Focus areas to fight climate change, our factories have
capabilities in areas such as Supply Chain Delivering on our refined corporate in place decarbonisation, water usage and
for multi-category markets, Brand strategy and Building a Smokeless World waste optimisation programmes.
Management, Science, Innovation will require greater focus on our global We work to ensure that our costs are
and Leadership. execution. This includes getting the U.S. globally competitive and that we use our
Accelerating simplification back to growth, where and how we allocate resources as effectively as possible. Our
& digitalisation resources at a regional and market level, production facilities are designed to
Our focus over the next two years will be and driving greater productivity while meet the needs of an agile and flexible
on driving simplification in our people reducing complexity. supply chain.
processes, further leveraging digitalisation, Getting the U.S. back to growth We also use third-party manufacturers to
and ensuring our line managers are In 2024, we made investments to further manufacture the components required,
equipped with the data, insights and bolster our portfolio, following a deep and including the devices, related to our
foresights they require. thorough review in 2023. We reinvigorated Smokeless New Category products. Such
Creating a purposeful our Modern Oral offering with the launch of third-party manufacturers supplement our
& energising environment a new Velo mix, and the introduction of own production facilities in the U.S., Poland
We pride ourselves on being a diverse, Grizzly Modern Oral. and Indonesia to produce the liquids used
global, people-centric organisation that Recognising the importance of our U.S. in Vapour products.
respects and fosters conscious inclusion. business to our future growth, we will By continuing to improve our productivity
Being truly inclusive is one of our core continue to invest and focus on sharpening in all areas of our supply chain, we can
values and it is integral to our identity our portfolio management, strengthening increase our profitability and continue
at BAT. our route-to-market, and further leveraging to deliver sustainable returns to our
Alongside our six corporate Values and the our broad, digitally enabled, revenue shareholders.
Diversity and Inclusion enablers we have in growth management capabilities. However, it is not just about today, it also
place, we are transforming our approach to We are confident this should drive quality underpins our future. The more efficient
employee listening and wellbeing to ensure growth over the longer-term and ensure and effective we become, the more we are
everyone feels supported and included. greater resilience through economic cycles. able to generate funds to invest in the
In 2024, we launched our Truly Inclusive Driving productivity and growth things that will fuel future growth: our
Leaders Programme which aims to help Through our digital transformation, we are products, our innovations and our people.
our leaders to develop inclusive mindsets increasing our use of data to become a Working with farmers
and behaviours, fostering a psychologically data-led organisation. Our focus is on the While we do not own tobacco farms
safe and inclusive work environment. This effective and efficient delivery of our or directly employ farmers, we source
programme encourages self-reflection and market-leading products and innovations tobacco leaf directly from c.91,000
aims to spark cultural transformation at to satisfy consumers, drive growth and contracted farmers and through third-
BAT through critical questioning, create value and Build a Smokeless World. party suppliers mainly in emerging markets.
awareness and open conversations for
In order to meet and respond to the With our contracted farmers, we
ongoing improvement.
challenges of an ever-changing external continually strive to improve sustainability
To deliver on our commitment to well- environment, we continue to invest in and viability. We focus on improved quality,
being, we introduced our Global Benefits & technology to be a more efficient and cascading more resistant hybrid seeds,
Wellbeing guidelines and the LiveWell effective business, with AI-enabled, tailored mechanisation to reduce costs
framework across all markets. The LiveWell data-driven systems and ways of of production, and increased yield.
framework reflects a holistic view of working to match.
We review our contracts on an annual
wellbeing, focusing on emotional, physical,
Under the Operational Excellence pillar of basis considering Group requirements over
financial, and social pillars. Informed by
our refined corporate strategy, three focus the medium-term to promote the stability
employee needs and feedback, the
areas will be key to driving progress: of demand and supply on production volume.
framework drives greater consistency
optimising our manufacturing operations;
across our offerings, ensuring we prioritise We have similar expectations of our
reducing complexity in our ways of working
wellbeing and create an empowering third-party suppliers in relation to their
and processes, including using AI and data-
environment where our people can thrive farmer contracts.
enabled technology; and our Global Business
both personally and professionally. Services (GBS) Centres of Excellence. As with any other global agricultural
Evolving into a future-ready HR function commodity, international tobacco prices
At-scale operations
While our people strategy is ultimately vary from year to year. This is driven by
We have a global manufacturing footprint
owned by the Human Resources (HR) changes in the cost of production, like
designed to ensure an efficient supply
function, every leader at BAT is a co-owner labour costs and agricultural inputs, local
chain across both combustible and
and responsible for ensuring its effective inflationary pressures and economic,
Smokeless products.
deployment across the business. To political and market conditions, as well as
achieve this, we will continue to work Manufacturing tobacco and nicotine climatic conditions that impact supply,
with our HR teams around the world products is a large-scale operation and demand and quality of the tobacco grown.
to equip them with the skills needed to we have state-of-the-art manufacturing
help BAT and its leaders to achieve our facilities all over the world.
strategic ambitions. In 2024, the Group manufactured
cigarettes in 37 factories in 35 countries.
+ For more information on our Employee
Our factory outputs and facilities vary
Communities, see pages 110 to 111
significantly in size and production
capacity. We also have manufacturing sites
for our range of Smokeless products.
39
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Strategic Pillar Overview
Continued
Capital Effectiveness
Capital Effectiveness is a key focus of
delivering a Dynamic Business to Build
a Smokeless World.
The key objective is to unlock
shareholder value by optimising access,
utilisation and return of capital resources.
The key initiatives include:
–maximise our cash generation;
–invest in the right opportunities;
–optimise the return on our
investments;
–reduce our debts; and
–generate sustainable returns.
Our active capital allocation framework
considers the continued investment
in our transformation, the macro-
environment, potential future litigation
and regulatory outcomes.
Our Board continues to review our
capital allocation priorities including
both internal and external opportunities
and stakeholders while considering the
uncertain macro-environment, foreign
exchange fluctuations and higher
interest rates.
Cash generation Maximising our investments
Maximising cash generation is an essential As we continue to build A Better
component in our capital allocation decisions. Tomorrow™, the Group seeks to optimise
While the Group remains highly cash the return on our investments and seeks
generative, cash is a critical resource to to invest in the right opportunities.
ensure that we can invest in the right In 2025, the Group expects to invest
opportunities in Building a Smokeless World. around £650 million of gross capital
Recent macro-economic trends including expenditure to enhance our growth
geopolitical instability, conflicts, inflation opportunities and deliver operational
and interest rate volatility have meant that efficiencies. This includes purchases of
cash is a costly resource. As such, internally property, plant and equipment and certain
generated cash and working capital are intangibles, and the investment in the
much more valuable and they must be Group’s global operational infrastructure
mobilised effectively and optimised (including, but not limited to, the
efficiently. manufacturing network, trade marketing
software and IT systems and the expansion
This will be done by continuing to focus
of our New Categories portfolio).
on a high cash conversion rate as well as
rigorous focus on working capital. We will continue to proactively assess the
performance of our assets to ensure value
is maximised through operational returns
or through disposal.
In addition, as part of our transformation
we invest in the Wellbeing and Stimulation
space and through our venturing unit,
Btomorrow Ventures, and in the cannabis
space, including in Organigram.
Our commitment:
To continue to actively assess investments,
be it for acquisition or disposal, to
maximise our delivery and provide the right
infrastructure for the BAT of tomorrow.
40
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Reducing debt Generate sustainable returns
Total borrowings (which includes lease Generating shareholder value, via
liabilities) decreased to £36,950 million sustainable returns, is an integral part
in 2024 (2023: £39,730 million). of our strategic ambition.
Total borrowings include £670 million Over the past 25 years we have
(31 December 2023: £700 million) in respect consistently grown the dividend per
of purchase price adjustments related to ordinary share on absolute terms.
the acquisition of Reynolds American Inc. On 13 February 2025, the Company
As discussed on page 55, the Group announced that the Board had declared
remains confident about its ability to an interim dividend of 240.24p per ordinary
access the debt capital markets share, payable in four equal quarterly
successfully and reviews its options instalments of 60.06p per ordinary share in
on a continuing basis. May 2025, August 2025, November 2025
We have a debt rating of Baa1 (stable and February 2026.
outlook), BBB+ (stable outlook), BBB+ (stable This represents an increase of 2.0% on
outlook) by Moody's, S&P and Fitch. 2023 (2023: 235.52p per share, up 2.0%).
Given current geopolitical and economic The Board is committed to strengthening
challenges, the Group aims to: the balance sheet to provide greater
–de-lever our gross debt levels (from business reliance during an uncertain
£37.0 billion in 2024); and macro-economic environment, whilst
aiming to reduce leverage.
–moderate the annual Net Financing Cost
levels to support the overall strategy of We strongly believe that share buy-backs
the Group. have an important role to play within our
capital allocation framework.
This is expected to deliver a resilient
balance sheet, able to withstand future Accordingly, the Group undertook a £700
uncertainties, while providing increased million share buy-back programme in 2024,
flexibility for the Group to be able to invest with a further £900 million to be executed
in future growth opportunities and in 2025.
sustainably return excess cash to Our commitment:
shareholders. Progressive dividend – in sterling terms, by
This is expected to de-risk the future solvency reference to the Group’s dividend policy
and liquidity risk as referred to on page 160, which is to pay dividends of 65% of long-
whereby the Group's ability to refinance debt term sustainable earnings. Please refer to
as it matures will be enhanced. the dividend policy on page 449.
Our commitment: To buy back shares in a sustainable
To retire debt in a sustainable manner, programme, with reference to our
reducing our risk of refinancing and net narrowed target leverage range.
finance cost exposures. Our record:
Our record: In 2024, 2023 and 2022, we have returned:
Since the acquisition of Reynolds American –£5.2 billion (2023: £5.1 billion;
Inc. in 2017, we have consistently reduced 2022: £4.9 billion) via dividends; and
our borrowings from £49.1 billion to –£0.7 billion via share buy-backs in 2024.
£37.0 billion at 31 December 2024.
–£2.0 billion via share buy-backs in 2022.
Since 2020, we have returned a total of
£27.5 billion to shareholders.
41
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
U.S.
United States
2024 has been a year of Top markets:
stabilisation as we build
stronger foundations. We The U.S. is a top market for Cigarettes, Vapour, Modern Oral and Traditional Oral products
believe we have the right
capabilities and that our
investment approach is
strengthening our business
to create opportunities for
further growth.
Volume (units)
David Waterfield
2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 2022
President and CEO
New Categories:
(Reynolds American Inc.)
Vapour (units mn) 287 -3.7 % 298 -6.6 % 320
2024 revenue by category HP (sticks bn) — — — — —
Modern Oral (pouches bn) 1.0 +234 % 0.3 -1.3 % 0.3
Traditional Oral (stick eq bn) 5.3 -8.9 % 5.8 -10.9 % 6.6
Cigarettes (bn sticks) 47 -10.1 % 52 -11.4 % 59
Other (bn sticks eq)* — -20.3 % — -5.6 % —
Total Combustibles 47 -10.1 % 52 -11.3 % 59
Note:
* Other includes MYO/RYO.
Revenue (£m)
vs 2023 vs 2022
2024 vs 2023 (adj at cc) 2023 vs 2022 (adj at cc)
New Categories:
Revenue by category as % of total Region
Vapour 998 -3.5 % -0.8 % 1,033 +13.1 % +13.8 %
2024 2023
HP — — — — — % — %
New Categories 9.6 8.8
Modern Oral 80 +223 % +232 % 25 -32.2 % -31.8 %
Traditional oral 9.4 9.4
Total New
Combustibles 80.6 81.2 Categories 1,078 +1.8 % +4.6 % 1,058 +11.3 % +12.0 %
Other 0.4 0.6 Traditional Oral 1,058 -6.1 % -3.4 % 1,127 -4.0 % -3.4 %
Total Smokeless 2,136 -2.2 % +0.5 % 2,185 +2.9 % +3.5 %
Combustibles 9,094 -6.7 % -4.1 % 9,744 -6.9 % -6.4 %
Other 48 -25.3 % -22.7 % 65 +44.1 % +45.2 %
Revenue 11,278 -6.0 % -3.4 % 11,994 -5.1 % -4.5 %
Profit from operations/operating margin
vs 2023 vs 2022
2024 vs 2023 (adj at cc) 2023 vs 2022 (adj at cc)
Profit/(loss) from
operations (£m) 4,087 n/m -3.5 % (20,781) -435 % +0.4 %
Operating margin (%) +36.2 % 209.5 ppts -10 bps -173 % -222.4 ppts 2.8 ppts
Note:
n/m refers to movements that are not meaningful
-30 bps 18.9%
Cigarette value Smokeless revenue
share change as % of total revenue
42
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Revenue and Profit from Operations New Categories Combustibles
In 2024, reported revenue declined 6.0% to The U.S. is the world's largest Vapour market. Combustibles revenue was 6.7% lower
£11,278 million, with 2023 down 5.1% to In 2024, the Group maintained leadership in 2024 at £9,094 million (2023: down
£11,994 million. Excluding the impact of in value share (of closed systems 6.9% to £9,744 million). Excluding a
translational foreign exchange, this was a consumables in tracked channels), down translational foreign exchange headwind
decline of 3.4% in 2024 (2023: down 4.5%). by 2.0 ppts to 50.2%, (having increased of 2.6% in 2024 (2023: 0.5% marginal
Continued growth in New Categories and 5.4 ppts to 52.1% in 2023). headwind), this was a decrease of 4.1%
pricing in combustibles in both years was Price/mix was positive in both years (2024: (2023: down 6.4%). The positive impact
more than offset by lower combustibles +2.9%; 2023: +20.4%), yet in 2024 it was from pricing continued in 2024 at +6.0%
volume (down 10.1% in 2024 and 11.3% in insufficient to offset the decline in Vapour (2023: +4.9%) but in both years was more
2023). Both years were negatively consumable volume of 3.7% in 2024 (2023: than offset by a reduction in volume of
impacted by the continued pressure of down 6.6%), driven by the growth of illicit 10.1% to 47 billion sticks in 2024, having
macro-economic headwinds, squeezing single-use nicotine products which we declined 11.3% (to 52 billion) in 2023.
consumer affordability (which particularly estimate to be almost 70% of the total U.S. Both years were negatively impacted by
impacted the Group's premium skewed Vapour market. the continued pressure of macro-economic
portfolio) and, in 2023, the impact of the Accordingly, Vapour revenue was down headwinds, with growth in the deep-
flavour ban in California (which particularly 3.5% to £998 million (2023: up 13.1% to discounted category (in which the Group is
impacted Newport and Camel) and the £1,033 million) being a decline of 0.8% (2023: not present), the growth of illicit single-use
continued growth in illicit single-use increase of 13.8%) at constant rates of Vapour products as consumers increased
Vapour products which we estimate to be exchange. polyusage, and in 2023 the impact of the
almost 70% of the total U.S. Vapour market. flavour ban in California (which particularly
We welcome the FDA’s marketing
Reported profit from operations was authorisation for our Vuse Alto device impacted Newport and Camel). Accordingly,
£4,087 million in 2024 compared to a loss and tobacco flavour consumables, industry volume was down 8.4% (2023: down
of £20,781 million in 2023, which was a demonstrating that marketing these 7.5%), with the Group underperforming the
decline of 435% from a profit of products are appropriate for the market due to the premium skewed
£6,205 million in 2022. The comparative protection of public health. portfolio and the higher exposure to the
movements are largely due to menthol category.
We are also encouraged by the FDA's
the £4.3 billion impairment of goodwill and While our premium volume share was up
actions, the implementation of vapour
£23.0 billion impairment largely in respect 50 bps, driven by the performance of
directories and continued signs of illicit
of the carrying value of some of the Group's Newport soft-pack and Natural American
products volume decline in Louisiana.
acquired U.S. combustibles brands recognised Spirit, total volume share was flat
However, we believe much more effective
in 2023 and not repeating in 2024. In 2024, (2023: 10 bps decrease). Value share of
enforcement is needed to drive a
the Group impaired the carrying value of cigarettes fell 30 bps (2023: down 60 bps).
meaningful impact. This is why we have
Camel Snus, due to changing consumer taken the proactive step of filing two See page 36 for a discussion on regulatory
dynamics, by £646 million. complaints with the U.S. International developments during 2024 and 2023.
In 2024, the Group recognised net income Trade Commission. One of those Also, as stated on page 36, based upon the
of £132 million in connection with the complaints – based on patents – is ongoing published science, we believe that a ban on
settlement of historical litigation in respect and under investigation. The other menthol cigarettes would negatively affect,
of the Fox River. complaint – based on unfair competition – not benefit, public health. We believe a ban
Also in 2023, an extreme weather event was strategically withdrawn so we can re- on menthol is contrary to the FDA’s stated
caused the destruction of a warehouse and file to introduce new evidence that would goal of reducing the health effects of
stock of tobacco leaf, the impact of which increase likelihood of a favourable outcome. tobacco use.
was a charge of £9 million. Please refer to page 29 for further details Traditional Oral
Excluding the adjusting items and the on our views regarding regulation in the U.S. Traditional Oral revenue declined 6.1%
impact of translational foreign exchange In Modern Oral, our volume share increased (2023: down 4.0%), being a decline of 3.4%
(which was a headwind in both years), by 2.1 ppts with volume up 234% to (2023: 3.4% lower) at constant rates of
adjusted profit from operations declined 1.0 billion pouches (2023: down 1.3% exchange, as pricing in both years was more
by 3.5% (2023: 0.4% increase) on a to 0.3 billion pouches) driven by our than offset by the lower volume, down 8.9%
constant currency basis as the impact refreshed Velo brand expression and in 2024 and 10.9% in 2023. The decrease was
of lower combustibles volume and Grizzly Modern Oral roll-out. While we driven by the continued strong macro-
commercial initiatives in 2024 more than await the outcome of our PMTA economic headwinds and the accelerated
offset the growth of Modern Oral. submission for our successful European cross-category use of Modern Oral category
Following a review of the Group's product, Velo 2.0, we are encouraged that and reduced consumption. 2023 was also
expectations from the U.S. combustibles we have started to reinvigorate our impacted by the normalisation of inventory
market reflecting continuing macro- performance in 2024. levels (being a drag of 1.7% on that year).
economic headwinds, from 1 January 2024, Modern Oral revenue increased in 2024 Value share of Traditional Oral was down
the Group commenced amortising the to £80 million, driven by the traction of our 40 bps (2023: up 40 bps), while volume
remaining U.S. combustible brands refreshed Velo brand expression and share was down 40 bps (2023: down
(Newport, Camel, Natural American Spirit Grizzly Modern Oral roll-out. The Group 20 bps). The decline in both 2024 and 2023
and Pall Mall) over a period not exceeding reinvested in trade activation in 2023, was driven by strong macro-economic
30 years. The non-cash charge was leading to a decline in net pricing of 30.5% headwinds leading to consumers changing
£1.4 billion in 2024 and has been treated as and revenue down to £25 million in that year. behaviour, impacting our premium skewed
an adjusting item. Please refer to note 12 portfolio.
in the Notes on the Accounts.
Note:
In 2024, the Group changed from Marlin to Retail Scan Data
(RSD) to provide market share data for the U.S. Vapour and
Oral categories resulting in a revised 2023 position of 52.1%
(2022: 45.6%) for Vapour value share and 4.5% (2022: 3.9%)
for Modern Oral volume share, while the 2023 movement in
Traditional Oral volume share was revised to a decline of
20 bps, with no change to value share.
43
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
AME
Americas and Europe
With nearly 20% of total revenue Top markets:
now delivered by our Smokeless
products, we are demonstrating Cigarettes: Brazil, Germany, Mexico, Romania
the Group's ability to turn HP: Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic
aspiration into sustainable Vapour: Canada, France, Germany, Poland, Spain, the UK
Modern Oral: Denmark, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK
economic reality. We have
overcome a number of challenges
in 2024 and 2023, but have a
strong portfolio to continue to
drive value into 2025 and beyond. Volume (units)
2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 2022
Fred Monteiro
New Categories:
Regional Director
Vapour (units mn) 276 -11.5 % 312 +19.4 % 261
2024 revenue by category HP (sticks bn) 8 -24.6 % 11 -7.5 % 12
Modern Oral (pouches bn) 6.3 +50.2 % 4.2 +36.5 % 3.1
Traditional Oral (stick eq bn) 0.8 -3.3 % 0.8 -5.2 % 0.8
Cigarettes (bn sticks) 238 -10.2 % 265 -5.3 % 280
Other (bn sticks eq)* 11 -11.6 % 13 -12.0 % 14
Total Combustibles 249 -10.2 % 278 -5.7 % 294
Note:
* Other combustibles includes MYO/RYO.
Revenue(£m)
vs 2023 vs 2022
2024 vs 2023 (adj at cc) 2023 vs 2022 (adj at cc)
New Categories:
Revenue by category as % of total Region
Vapour 611 -10.8 % -8.8 % 686 +47.6 % +46.9 %
2024 2023
HP 443 -12.2 % -10.4 % 505 +2.3 % +3.0 %
New Categories 18.7 17.1
Modern Oral 676 +40.3 % +44.4 % 482 +41.5 % +44.6 %
Traditional oral 0.4 0.4
Total New
Combustibles 76.2 77.8 Categories 1,730 +3.5 % +6.1 % 1,673 +28.8 % +29.6 %
Other 4.7 4.7 Traditional Oral 34 -5.8 % -3.6 % 36 +1.7 % +7.9 %
Total Smokeless 1,764 +3.3 % +5.9 % 1,709 +28.1 % +29.0 %
Combustibles 7,039 -7.5 % -1.7 % 7,614 +0.3 % +2.9 %
Other 438 -6.7 % +0.2 % 468 +28.2 % +25.2 %
Revenue 9,241 -5.6 % -0.3 % 9,791 +5.4 % +7.6 %
Profit from operations/operating margin
vs 2023 vs 2022
2024 vs 2023 (adj at cc) 2023 vs 2022 (adj at cc)
(Loss)/Profit from
Operations (£m) (3,464) -208.5 % +1.5 % 3,194 +9.2 % +5.9 %
Operating Margin (%) -37.5 % -70.1 ppts 70 bps +32.6 % 1.1 ppts -50 bps
flat 19.1%
Cigarette value Smokeless revenue
share change as % of total revenue
44
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Revenue and Profit from Operations –Romania, following continued strong of reducing smoking rates, a goal we share.
Reported revenue in 2024 was 5.6% lower combustibles pricing and growth in New Smokeless products, including vapour
than 2023 (2023: up 5.4%) despite the Categories; devices, are an effective way of helping
continued growth in New Categories –the UK, driven by continued growth in our smokers switch away from cigarettes.
revenue (2024: up 3.5%, 2023: up 29%). This New Categories portfolio; and In 2024, HP volume declined by 24.6%
was offset by lower combustible volume –the Nordics, Switzerland and Italy, which (2023: down 7.5%), with revenue 12.2%
(down 10.2% in 2024 and 5.7% lower in 2023). all improved their New Categories lower at £443 million (2023: up 2.3% to
In both 2024 and 2023, revenue was financial performance. £505 million). The region now represents
negatively impacted by the timing of the 39.9% of our global HP volume. In 2024 and
These factors were partly offset by:
sale of the Group's businesses in Russia 2023, our HP performance was negatively
and Belarus partway through 2023. In 2024, –a decline in adjusted profit from impacted by the timing of the sale of the
this was a negative drag of £479 million, operations from Canada, driven by lower Group's businesses in Russia and Belarus,
while it was a drag of £456 million in 2023, combustibles volume and a lack of which offset an improved performance in
against the comparable year's performance. enforcement of illegal single-use vapour Germany, Poland and Italy. Our aggregate
products following the flavour ban in the category volume share in top HP markets*,
Translational foreign exchange was a
province of Québec; and was 17.1% in 2024, being flat against 2023.
headwind in 2024 of 5.3%, compared to
a headwind of 2.2% in 2023. –the timing of the sale, partway through In 2024, Modern Oral revenue grew 40.3%
the year, of the Group's businesses in (2023: up 41.5%), led by 50.2% volume
Excluding the impact of currency, revenue
Russia and Belarus, which was a negative growth (2023: 36.5% increase).
declined 0.3% on a constant rates basis
drag of £193 million in 2024 and
(2023: up 7.6%), with 2024 impacted by the Having increased our geographic footprint
£126 million in 2023.
sale of the Group's businesses in Russia with expansion of Modern Oral into Finland,
and Belarus partway through 2023. The At constant rates of exchange, adjusted Italy and France during 2023, we remain
growth in 2023 was driven by higher profit from operations was up 1.5% in 2024 the clear market leaders (by volume share)
revenue in Germany, Türkiye, Poland (2023: up 5.9%). in 21 Modern Oral markets. From a high
and Brazil, more than offsetting the New Categories base, volume share in our Top AME markets
impact of the sale of Russia and Belarus Revenue from Vapour was down 10.8% in was down 10 bps at 64.7%.
in the period. 2024, having grown 47.6% in 2023. Pricing As the Modern Oral category continues
Reported profit from operations declined remained a positive contributor to to grow and becomes more established in
by 208.5% to a loss of £3,464 million in performance in both years, with price/mix Europe, we continue to see strong growth
2024. This compares to a profit of £3,194 of +2.7% in 2024 and +27.5% in 2023. in adult consumer numbers. In Sweden,
million in 2023 (up 9.2%). Both years were However, Vapour consumables volume in Velo is the largest (by volume share) of any
affected by a number of adjusting items. 2024 was down 11.5%, having grown 19.4% snus or Modern Oral nicotine pouch brand**.
These were, in aggregate, charges of in 2023. The decline in 2024 was largely Combustibles
£6,784 million in 2024 compared due to Canada where a lack of enforcement In 2024, revenue was 7.5% lower, compared
to charges of £266 million in 2023. of illegal single-use products following the to an increase of 0.3% in 2023. Favourable
In summary these were: flavour ban in the province of Québec has price/mix in both years (of +5.7% in 2024
–total charges of £6,203 million in 2024 impacted volume, down 32%, yet we and 8.6% in 2023) was offset by the impact
following the publication of a proposed maintained our leadership position with of lower combustible volume, down 10.2%
settlement of litigation in Canada (see value share at 85.9% (down 6.7 ppts) in 2024 and 5.7% in 2023. Excluding the
page 328); in 2024, having grown 2.1 ppts in 2023. impact of translational foreign exchange,
–a charge of £449 million in 2024 We continue to approach the growing at constant rates of exchange, revenue
in respect of an excise assessment modern single-use product category in a declined 1.7% (2023: 2.9%).
in Romania; responsible way (through Underage Access The decrease in combustible volume in
–impairment charges of £149 million in Prevention programmes and enhanced both 2024 and 2023 was largely driven by
2024 in respect of fixed assets, including product Take-Back schemes). the sale of the Group's businesses in Russia
the Group's head office in London and The rechargeable closed system device and Belarus partway through 2023. In 2024,
the intention to seek an orderly exit segment began to return to growth at our performance was also driven by lower
from Cuba; industry level in Europe with Vuse Go volume in Canada which more than offset
Reload, our new rechargeable closed higher volume in Türkiye, the continued
–charges of £353 million in 2023, including
system, performing well. We believe we are improvement in volume in Brazil and higher
the reclassification of foreign exchange
well-positioned to capitalise on this volume in Mexico. This compares to 2023,
reserves, related to the sale of the
momentum with global leadership in the when lower volume in Canada, Chile and
Group's businesses in Russia and Belarus
rechargeable closed segment, with value Romania was partly offset by Türkiye,
- please refer to note 6 in the Notes on
share of 59.9%. Germany, Brazil and Mexico.
the Accounts; and
However, the growth of the single-use Cigarette value share was flat in 2024.
–non-repeating net income in 2023 of
£120 million in respect of the recognition segment in 2024 and 2023 has impacted 2023 cigarette value share was flat as
of credits regarding the calculation of our value share of closed system increases in Mexico, Italy, Germany, Spain,
VAT and excise tax claims in prior periods. consumables across a number of markets. France and Colombia was offset by lower
For example, in the UK, our value share value share in Brazil, the UK, Canada, the
Excluding the impact of currency and declined 90 bps to 8.9%, with the UK Czech Republic and Denmark.
adjusting items (described above), the another example of where a lack of
regional performance was driven by: enforcement of regulations (in respect of Cigarette volume share grew 20 bps
(2023: up 10 bps) with volume share up
–Türkiye where the combustibles portfolio the volume of liquids in Vapour products) is
in Brazil and Mexico partially offset by
performed well with higher volume and negatively impacting the legitimate market.
Romania and Germany.
pricing; Following the Mexican Government’s
Notes:
–Germany, driven by our HP portfolio; decision to ban the sale of Vapour
* The Top markets were revised in 2024, with a reduction
products, Vuse will no longer be sold in in volume share in respect of 2023 to 17.1% (for HP) and
Mexico. We believe this decision runs 64.7% (for Modern Oral).
contrary to the Mexican Government’s goal ** Source: Based on NielsenIQ volume share of Total Oral.
45
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
APMEA
Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa
I am extremely proud of our Top markets:
performance in 2024, a year
where we have delivered Cigarettes: Bangladesh, Japan, Pakistan
revenue growth, excluding HP: Japan, South Korea
FX, across all products while
also driving an increase in
profit and margin.
Michael (Mihovil) Dijanosic
Regional Director Volume (units)
2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 2022
New Categories:
Vapour (units mn) 53 +19.1 % 44 +43.1 % 31
2024 revenue by category HP (sticks bn) 13 -0.2 % 13 +4.9 % 12
Modern Oral (pouches bn) 1.0 +16.8 % 0.9 +36.2 % 0.6
Traditional Oral (stick eq bn) — — — — —
Cigarettes (bn sticks) 220 -7.3 % 238 -10.6 % 266
Other (bn sticks eq)* 2 -7.2 % 2 -3.1 % 2
Total Combustibles 222 -7.3 % 240 -10.6 % 268
Note:
* Other combustibles includes MYO/RYO.
Revenue (£m)
vs 2023 vs 2022
2024 vs 2023 (adj at cc) 2023 vs 2022 (adj at cc)
New Categories:
Revenue by category as % of total Region
Vapour 112 +19.6 % +23.7 % 93 +60.5 % +74.6 %
2024 2023
HP 478 -2.8 % +5.6 % 491 -13.2 % -7.3 %
New Categories 11.7 11.2
Modern Oral 34 +5.7 % +10.0 % 32 +50.3 % +70.8 %
Traditional oral 0.0 0.0
Total New
Combustibles 85.1 86.4 Categories 624 +1.0 % +8.6 % 616 -4.5 % +2.6 %
Other 3.2 2.4 Traditional Oral — — — — — —
Total Smokeless 624 +1.0 % +8.6 % 616 -4.5 % +2.6 %
Combustibles 4,552 -4.2 % +3.5 % 4,750 -4.5 % +5.2 %
Other 172 +31.1 % +59.8 % 132 +18.9 % +32.0 %
Revenue 5,348 -2.7 % +5.4 % 5,498 -4.0 % +5.5 %
Profit from operations/operating margin
vs 2023 vs 2022
2024 vs 2023 (adj at cc) 2023 vs 2022 (adj at cc)
Profit from
Operations (£m) 2,113 +15.1 % +7.5 % 1,836 +31.9 % +6.9 %
Operating Margin (%) +39.5 % 6.1 ppts 80 bps +33.4 % 9.1 ppts 60 bps
flat 11.7%
Cigarette value Smokeless revenue
share change as % of total revenue
46
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Revenue and Profit from Operations These more than offset a decline in Combustibles
Reported revenue declined 2.7% to Australia (driven by lower industry volume) Revenue from combustibles declined by
£5,348 million (2023: declined 4.0% and in Sudan, where the Group was 4.2% to £4,552 million (2023: down 4.5% to
to £5,498 million). negatively impacted by the ongoing £4,750 million), with both years impacted
Our reported performance is affected by conflict leading to supply chain disruptions. by the translational foreign exchange
translational foreign exchange, which was Adjusted profit from operations at constant headwind. At constant rates of exchange,
a headwind in both years. Excluding the rates of exchange increased 7.5% in 2024, revenue increased 3.5% in 2024 and by
impact of this translational foreign having increased 6.9% in 2023. 5.2% in 2023.
exchange, revenue was up 5.4% against New Categories In 2024, this was driven by pricing in
2023, itself an increase of 5.5% compared Total revenue from New Categories Pakistan, New Zealand, Bangladesh, Sri
to 2022, at constant rates. increased 1.0% to £624 million Lanka, Kenya, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia
The performance in both 2024 and 2023 (2023: declined 4.5% to £616 million), with more than offsetting lower volume in
was driven by the continued growth in both years impacted by translational Bangladesh and Australia and the negative
New Categories and favourable pricing in foreign exchange headwinds. On a impact of the supply chain disruption in
combustibles (2024: 10.8%; 2023: 15.8%), constant currency basis, revenue from Sudan.
notably in Pakistan, New Zealand, New Categories increased 8.6% in 2024 In 2023, this was driven by combustibles
Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Kenya, Nigeria and and 2.6% in 2023. pricing of +15.8%, notably in Pakistan, which
Saudi Arabia in 2024. Excluding translational foreign exchange, more than offset a decrease in total
These more than offset lower combustibles which we believe reflects the operational combustible volume of 10.6%, as lower
volume (down 7.3% in 2024 and 10.6% in 2023). performance, this was driven by: volume in Pakistan more than outweighed
higher volume in Bangladesh.
Reported profit from operations increased –Vapour, with revenue up 23.7% in 2024
15.1% to £2,113 million, while 2023 was up (2023: up 74.6%) led by a combination of In 2024, value share was flat (2023: down
31.9% to £1,836 million. higher volume (up 19.1% in 2024 and up 60 bps), with volume share up 40 bps
The comparative performance in 2023 43.1% in 2023) and price/mix in 2024 of (2023: down 20 bps), as volume share gains
reflected a number of charges that +4.6% driven by South Korea and New in Bangladesh and Pakistan were partly
impacted 2022 and, because they did not Zealand; and offset by reductions in Japan.
repeat to the same scale in 2023, led to a –Modern Oral, as revenue grew 10.0% in In 2025, we expect significant combustible
commensurate increase in performance. 2024, led by higher volume (up 16.8%), headwinds to impact performance in
These included: while price/mix was a negative drag of APMEA, particularly in Australia where new
6.8%. The revenue performance was tobacco regulations come into effect in
–charges related to the allegation of fuelled by robust growth from Global April 2025 and in Bangladesh following a
historical breaches of sanctions (of which Travel Retail and continued strong substantial increase in excise and VAT.
£75 million was recognised in 2023,
Emerging Market volume performance
compared to £450 million in 2022, as
in Pakistan (up 27.3%). Our insights and
described on page 50 and in note 6(h) in
foresights in these markets give us
the Notes on the Accounts on page 281);
confidence in our ability to unlock the
–the exit from Egypt (£118 million, Emerging Market opportunity for
recognised in 2022); and Modern Oral going forward. In 2023,
–a charge of £79 million (related to the revenue increased by 70.8%, driven by
conclusion of the investigation into volume (up 36.2%) and price/mix (up
alleged violations of the Nigerian 34.6%); and
Competition and Consumer Protection –HP revenue was higher by 5.6% in 2024
Act and National Tobacco Control Act). (2023: down 7.3%), driven by the strength
2023 was also negatively impacted by the of our innovations and activation of our
impairment of South African goodwill of commercial plans in Japan.
£291 million due to the continued negative The decline in 2023 was despite a further
impact of illicit trade. In 2024, as a result of increase in consumable volume (up 4.9%
the upcoming regulations that are to 12.6 billion sticks), as this was more than
expected to impact the sale of tobacco and offset by the competitive pricing
Vapour products, goodwill associated with environment in Japan in that year which
Malaysia was impaired by £39 million. included the final step in the five-year
Excluding adjusting items and the excise harmonisation programme, leading
translational foreign exchange headwind, to a decline in regional price/mix of 12.2%.
the performance in 2024 was driven by:
–Japan, following the volume growth and
improved financial performance of our
HP portfolio;
–Sri Lanka, largely due to pricing in
combustibles as the economy recovers
from the financial crisis;
–Saudi Arabia, driven by pricing of
combustibles;
–Indonesia, where combustibles volume
grew; and
–Asset sales, including in West Africa as
the Group exited Mali.
47
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Financial Performance Summary
Non-GAAP Measures scale of the businesses and the timing of
Highlights In the reporting of financial information, the the transactions, this is a drag on our
Group uses certain measures that are not comparative performance. Where
defined by IFRS, the Generally Accepted appropriate, the impact has been explained
Revenue Accounting Principles (GAAP) under which in the following review of the Group's
the Group reports. The Group believes that financial results.
-5.2% these additional measures, which are used As shown on pages 229 to 230, the
internally, are useful to users of the financial Group's KPIs for the purposes of
information in helping them understand the remuneration have been revised to be
underlying business performance. on an organic basis, excluding the results
New Categories revenue growth and pricing in The principal non-GAAP measures which of Russia and Belarus in the current and
combustibles offset by the sale of our Russian
and Belarusian businesses partway through the Group uses are adjusted profit from comparator period. Full reconciliations
2023, lower combustibles volume and operations, adjusted net finance costs, from the relevant IFRS measure have
currency headwinds. Excluding currency, adjusted taxation and adjusted diluted been provided on pages 395 to 406.
revenue was down 0.5%
earnings per share, which are before the
impact of adjusting items and are
The discussion of 2022 results that
reconciled from profit from operations, net
are not necessary to an understanding
finance costs, taxation and diluted earnings
Profit from Operations of the Group’s financial condition,
per share. The Group also uses adjusted
changes in financial condition and
£2,736m share of post-tax results of associates and
results of operations is excluded from
joint ventures, and underlying tax rate.
this Financial Review in accordance
Adjusting items are significant items in with applicable U.S. securities laws.
profit from operations, net finance costs, Discussion of such 2022 metrics is
Profit from operations was £2,736 million taxation and the Group’s share of the post- contained in the Group’s Annual
compared to a loss of £15,751 million in 2023.
On an adjusted, constant currency basis, profit tax results of associates and joint ventures Report on Form 20-F 2023, which
from operations declined 0.2%, with an which individually or, if of a similar type, in is available at bat.com/annualreport
improvement in the financial performance of aggregate, are relevant to an and has been filed with the SEC.
New Categories offset by the impact of the understanding of the Group’s underlying Information contained in pages 30
s p a a l r e t w of a o y u t r h R ro u u s g s h ia 2 n 0 a 2 n 3 d . Belarusian businesses financial performance. to 38, pages 50 to the first column
The Group also supplements its on page 58 and from the heading
presentation of revenue in accordance ‘Retirement benefit schemes’ on page
with IFRS by presenting the non-GAAP 58 to page 59 of the Annual Report on
Diluted EPS component breakdowns of revenues by Form 20-F 2023 are accordingly
product category (including revenue incorporated by reference into this
136.0p generated from Vapour, Heated Products, Annual Report on Form 20-F 2024
Modern Oral, New Categories as a whole, only to the extent such information
Combustibles and Traditional Oral), pertains to the Group’s financial
including by geographic segment (including condition and results of operations for
This compares to a loss of 646.6p in 2023.
revenue generated in the United States, the fiscal year ended 31 December 2022.
Adjusted diluted EPS up 1.7% at constant rates
of exchange Americas and Europe and Asia-Pacific,
Middle East and Africa).
As an additional measure to indicate the
results of the Group before the impact of
exchange rates on the Group’s results,
the movement in revenue, adjusted profit
from operations, adjusted net finance costs
and adjusted diluted earnings per share are
all shown at constant rates of exchange.
These non-GAAP measures are explained,
defined and reconciled from the most
comparable GAAP metric on pages 395
to 410 and note 2 in the Notes on
the Accounts.
Dividend per share
Use of Organic Measures for
240.24p
Remuneration Purposes
The sale of our businesses in Russia and
Belarus completed in September 2023.
The sale was not treated as a discontinued
Dividend per share up 2.0% at 240.24p
operation as, in our judgement, this was
neither a sale of a business line (as the
Group continues to manufacture and sell
cigarettes and New Category products
elsewhere in the world) or a disposal of a
major geographic area of operations (as the
impact of the sale was 1.8% of Group
revenue and 1.5% of profit from operations,
excluding the impact of adjusting items
of the Group’s performance in 2023), as
discussed on page 337. However, due to the
48
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Revenue Profit From Operations Revenue
In 2024, revenue was £25,867 million Profit from operations was £2,736 million (£m)
(down 5.2%), with 2023 1.3% lower than compared to a loss in 2023 of £15,751
£25,867m
2022 at £27,283 million. million, which was a decline of 250% on
Translational foreign exchange impacted 2022.
both years (2024: 4.7% headwind; 2023: Our performance in 2023 was negatively
-5.2%
2.9% headwind). Revenue at constant rates impacted by the impairment charge against
of exchange declined 0.5% (2023: up 1.6%). goodwill in the U.S. of £4.3 billion as a non-
I w n a b s o n th e g 2 a 0 t 2 iv 4 e a ly n i d m 2 p 0 a 2 c 3 te , o d u b r y p t e h r e fo s r a m le a n of c e o ur c o a n s g h o i a n d g j u d s if t f i i n c g u l c t h m ar a g c e ro . T -e h c is o r n e o f m lec ic t s the 2024 25,867 -5.2%
Russian and Belarusian businesses, which environment and continued drag on our 2023 27,283 -1.3%
completed in September 2023. legal Vapour business by the illicit single- Definition: Revenue recognised, net of duty,
A combination of the timing of the sale use products in that market. Also in 2023, excise and other taxes.
a a n c d o m a l p o a w ra e t r i p ve e r d fo ra r g m o a n n c re e v f e ro n m ue R b u y s £ s 4 ia 7 w 9 as w im e p r a e ir c m og e n n i t s e c d h a a r g n e o n o - f c £ a 2 s 3 h b a i d lli j o u n st l i a n r g g ely l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
million (in 2024) and £456 million (in 2023) against our U.S. combustible brands
versus the respective prior period. which have been previously recognised Change in revenue at constant rates
as indefinite-lived. We commenced (%)
Our New Categories portfolio continued to
amortisation of these brands from
perform well with revenue up 6.1% in 2024 -0.5%
1 January 2024 with an increase in
and 17.8% in 2023 (at constant rates).
amortisation charges of £1,427 million
In combustibles, revenue declined 6.4% in 2024. In 2024, an impairment charge
to £20,685 million (2023: down 4.0% to of £646 million was recognised in respect
£22,108 million). Continued robust of Camel Snus, driven by the lower 2024 -0.5 %
combustibles price/mix (of 5.3% in 2024, performance of that brand as consumers
2023 +1.6%
compared to 7.5% in 2023) was more than switch to Modern Oral products. Camel Snus
offset by lower cigarette volume (down 8.9% will be amortised as a definite lived brand, Definition: Change in revenue before the impact of
in 2024 at 505 billion sticks, having declined effective 1 January 2025. Please refer to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
8.2% in 2023 to 555 billion sticks) and the note 12 for more details. l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
impact of translational foreign exchange
Our reported performance in both years
movement (2024: 4.8% headwind; 2023: was also impacted by the sale of the Profit from operations
3.2% headwind). Consequently, revenue
Group's businesses in Russia and Belarus (£m)
from combustibles declined 1.6% (at
partway through 2023 and, in 2023, lower
constant rates of exchange) in 2024, having £2,736m
comparative sales in Russia. This was a
declined 0.8% in 2023.
headwind of £193 million in 2024 and
In the U.S., Group combustibles volume £126 million in 2023.
was down 10.1% in 2024 and 11.3% in 2023,
Our financial performance in 2024 was
as both years were negatively impacted by 2024 2,736
also impacted by charges recognised in
the continued pressure of macro-economic respect of the ongoing litigation in Canada 2023 -15,751
headwinds, with growth in the deep-
(£6,203 million, discussed on page 328),
discounted category (in which the Group is Definition: Profit for the year before the impact of
a £449 million charge in respect of an net finance costs/income, share of post-tax results
not present), the growth of illicit single-use
excise assessment in Romania and of associates and joint ventures and taxation on
Vapour products as consumers increased £149 million of fixed asset impairments ordinary activities.
polyusage, and in 2023, the impact of the
related to the Group’s London head office l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
flavour ban in California (which particularly
and the intention to seek an orderly exit
impacted Newport and Camel).
from Cuba. This compares to 2023, which
Accordingly, industry volume was down Change in adjusted profit from
was impacted by additional charges related
8.4% (2023: down 7.5%) in the U.S. on a operations at constant rates
to the sale of the Group's businesses in
sales to wholesaler basis. Russia and Belarus. (%)
2024 was impacted by a translational -0.2%
Reconciliation of revenue to revenue at constanfot rreaitgens e xchange headwind
(2023: headwind).
2024 2023 2022
Change % Change %
£m (vs 2023) £m (vs 2022) £m 2024 -0.2%
Revenue 25,867 -5.2% 27,283 -1.3% 27,655 2023 +3.1%
Impact of exchange 1,284 813 Definition: Change in profit from operations before
the impact of adjusting items and the impact of
Revenue at constant rates 27,151 -0.5% 28,096 +1.6% 27,655 fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
49
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Financial Performance Summary
Continued
Raw materials and other consumables In 2023, goodwill impairment charges were –charges in respect of the potential
costs increased 0.4% to £4,565 million in £4,614 million, largely due to ongoing settlement in Canada of £6,203 million,
2024, following a decrease of 4.9% to difficult U.S. macro-economic environment, being in respect of:
£4,545 million in 2023. uncertainty regarding the impact of the –cash and cash equivalents and
The results in both years are impacted by potential menthol ban and continued drag investments held at fair value (totalling
translational foreign exchange (a tailwind on our legal Vapour business by the illicit £2,456 million) at the balance sheet date
in 2024, and a tailwind in 2023). single-use products in that market. that is expected to be included in any
Both years were negatively impacted by These are described in notes 4, 6 and 7 future settlement; and
the macro-economic headwinds, with in the Notes on the Accounts. –a provision in respect of the Group's
inflation of £387 million (or 6.5%) in 2024 Expenditure on research and development estimate for the remaining liability
(2023: £527 million (or 9.1%)) mainly due to was £380 million in 2024 (2023: £408 million), (£3,747 million) that will be settled
higher leaf prices (impacted by adverse with a focus on products that could by payments made based upon
weather conditions) and manufacturing potentially reduce the risk associated with future performance;
costs (labour and utilities). Results will likely smoking conventional cigarettes. –charges of £449 million in respect of an
continue to be impacted by inflationary Other operating income decreased excise assessment in Romania;
forces (particularly related to tobacco leaf). by £92 million to £340 million –other litigation costs of £157 million
Such pressures were offset by efficiency (2023: £432 million), as income in 2024 (2023: £96 million) which, in both periods,
initiatives which delivered £402 million in included the settlement of historical was mainly in respect of U.S. litigation costs
2024 (2023: £471 million) in total savings. litigation in respect of the Fox River including Engle progeny and other health-
Transactional foreign exchange was also (£132 million). However, this was lower related claims. Included in 2024 is a credit
a negative drag to our performance, at than 2023, which included income in of £2 million recognised for the settlement
£136 million in 2024 and £293 million in respect of the Brazilian VAT and excise on with the state of Idaho and a credit of
2023, due to movement in our operating social contributions claims of £167 million. £18 million related to the Washington
currencies largely against the US dollar. Other operating expenses increased portion of the 2004 Non-Participating
Employee benefit costs increased 6.3% by £5,555 million to £13,093 million (2023: Manufacturer adjustment award;
to £2,831 million (2023: down 10.4% to decrease of £1,480 million to £7,538 –impairment charges in respect of fixed
£2,664 million). The increase in 2024 million). The increase in 2024 was largely assets (£149 million) including the Group's
was despite lower average overall due to the charges recognised in relation to head office in London and the intention to
headcount (2024: 48,209; 2023: 49,839) in proposed settlement in Canada (£6,203 seek an orderly exit from Cuba;
part due to the sale of the Group’s million) and a charge of £449 million related –a charge of £4 million (largely due to
businesses in Russia and Belarus in 2023. to an excise assessment in Romania. The foreign exchange) related to the final
However, salary inflation and an increased movement in 2023 was largely due to payment made in respect of resolving the
headcount in the U.S. in line with certain charges that arose in 2022 investigations by the DOJ and OFAC into
reinvestment in trade capabilities led to an (including related to the DOJ/OFAC historical breaches of sanctions
increase in expense. investigation concluded in that year (2023: £75 million); and
and charges related to the decision
Depreciation, amortisation and to dispose of the Group's businesses –a credit as the Group settled the
impairment costs declined by in Russia and Belarus). historical litigation in respect of the Fox
£25,513 million to £3,101 million in 2024 River (£132 million).
compared to an increase of £27,309 million The Group continued to invest in
to £28,614 million in 2023. The aggregate New Categories, maintaining the level In 2023, the Group also recognised:
decrease was largely due to the decision to of investment (in marketing spend –goodwill impairment of £4.6 billion largely
commence amortisation of certain U.S. and research and development) in line recognised in respect of the U.S. business
combustible brands over a useful economic with 2023. as discussed on page 43 and within note
life not exceeding 30 years, from 1 January As discussed in note 33 in the Notes on the 12 in the Notes on the Accounts;
2024. That decision required, in 2023, the Accounts (page 367), the Group incurred –a net credit of £120 million largely related
Group to recognise an impairment charge £66 million (2023: £27 million) of costs to the calculation of VAT and excise on
of £22,995 million as the brands were related to recycling (Take-Back and waste social contributions in Brazil; and
reclassified from indefinite to definite lived. collection schemes). In both 2024 and
–charges of £353 million in respect of the
While such an impairment charge did not 2023, extreme weather events led to sale of the Group's businesses in Russia
repeat, in 2024, the Group's annual charges of £11 million (in 2024) related to and Belarus.
amortisation charge in respect of machinery damage and £9 million (in 2023)
trademarks and similar intangible was in respect of the destruction of a
higher at £1,652 million (2023: £237 million). warehouse and stock of tobacco leaf.
These charges are described in note 33
In 2024, the Group also recognised
in the Notes on the Accounts.
an impairment charge of £646 million in
respect of Camel Snus reflecting the Adjusting items included within profit from
ongoing market dynamics as consumers operations totalled £9,154 million in 2024
of traditional snus products increasingly (2023: £28,216 million). These related to:
adopt Modern Oral variants. –trademark amortisation and impairment
In 2024, the Group recognised a goodwill (2024: £2,279 million; 2023: £23,202
impairment charge of £39 million in million) with the higher charge in 2023
respect of Malaysia following the change in due to the impairment of certain of the
regulations regarding the sale of tobacco U.S. acquired brands as discussed on page
and vapour products. 43 and within note 12 in the Notes on the
Accounts. 2024 also included an
adjustment for the impairment charge
in respect of Camel Snus of £646 million
and goodwill in Malaysia of £39 million;
50
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Adjusted profit from operations is the Net Finance Costs The Group has debt maturities of around
Group’s profit from operations before In 2024, net finance costs were £3.3 billion annually in the next two years.
adjusting items referred to above. £1,098 million, a decline of £797 million Due to higher interest rates, net finance
Adjusted profit from operations declined on 2023 which, at £1,895 million, were costs are expected to increase as debts are
4.6% to £11,890 million. On a constant £254 million higher than 2022. refinanced.
currency basis, this was a marginal decline 2024 benefited from a net credit of Associates and Joint Ventures
of 0.2%. £590 million related to the capped cash Associates largely comprised the Group’s
New Categories continued to improve their debt tender offers, which targeted series shareholding in its Indian associate, ITC.
financial performance, although this was of low-priced, long-dated GBP-, EUR- and The Group’s share of post-tax results of
more than offset by the impact of the sale USD-denominated bonds, under which the associates and joint ventures, included at
of the Group's businesses in Russia and Group repurchased bonds prior to their the pre-tax level under IFRS, increased
Belarus partway through 2023, which was a maturity in an aggregate principal amount from £585 million to £1,900 million in 2024,
headwind on the 2024 performance by 1.6% of £1.8 billion, including £15 million of driven by a credit of £1,361 million
and 0.8% on 2023. accrued interest, completed in May 2024 in respect of the sale by the Group of
and, including other costs of £3 million, 436,851,457 ordinary shares held in ITC.
In 2023, adjusted profit from operations was
treated as an adjusting item. The sale represents 3.5% of ITC's ordinary
up 0.5% to £12,465 million, being an increase
of 3.1% on a constant currency basis. In 2023, the Group completed a tender offer shares. The gain has been treated as an
to repurchase sterling-equivalent £3.1 billion adjusting item.
Operating Margin
of bonds, including £43 million of accrued Included in the results for 2024 and 2023
Operating margin in 2024 was up
interest. Other costs directly associated are other adjusting items, which included
68.3 ppts to 10.6% having declined
with the early repurchase of bonds, a deemed gain of £18 million in 2024
-95.8 ppts to -57.7% in 2023. These
including the premium paid, were treated (2023: £40 million), arising on the deemed
movements were largely due to the impact
as adjusting items. disposal of part of the Group’s shareholding
of the impairment charges recognised
in 2023 related to the U.S. goodwill 2024 and 2023 were impacted by a in ITC (due to issuances of ordinary
and trademarks. translational foreign exchange, being a shares under the ITC Employee Share
tailwind of 1.5% in 2024 and a marginal Option Scheme).
Operating margin headwind in 2023, due to the movements As a result of the above, the Group's
of sterling compared to the US dollar. share of ITC has reduced from 29.02%
(%)
Interest expense was lower (2024: (31 December 2023) to 25.45% at
+10.6% £1,704 million; 2023: £1,786 million) driven 31 December 2024.
by a reduction in short term funding 2023 was up 32.4% (from £442 million in
requirements in the year. 2022) largely due to the economic recovery
The Group’s average cost of debt was 4.9% in India from COVID-19.
2024 10.6% in 2024, compared to 5.2% in 2023. On 24 July 2023, ITC announced a
2023 -57.7 % However, the prior year included a fair value proposed demerger of its ‘Hotels Business’
loss of £151 million. Excluding this, the under a scheme of arrangement by which
Definition: Profit from operations as a percentage
average cost of debt was an increase in 60% of the newly incorporated entity
of revenue.
2024 to 4.9% from 4.8% in 2023. would be held directly by ITC's
l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP Interest income was higher (2024: shareholders proportionate to their
£251 million; 2023: £186 million), which was shareholding in ITC. In January 2025, ITC
Adjusted operating margin driven by higher cash balances resulting Hotels Limited was listed and commenced
(bps) from the sale of a part of the ordinary trading on the National Stock Exchange of
shares held in the Group's main associate India (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange
46.0% ITC, higher interest rates on local deposits (BSE). The Group's direct stake in ITC
and interest income of £110 million (2023: Hotels Limited is 15%.
£90 million) in Canada. In 2023, due to the volatility in global
In 2021, the Group issued perpetual hybrid cannabis stock prices, the Group
2024 46.0% bonds totalling €2 billion, recognised, in line recognised an impairment charge (net of
2023 45.7% with IAS 32 Financial Instruments, as tax) of £34 million related to the Group's
equity. Interest on such instruments is investment in Organigram Holdings Inc. In
D as e a fi n p i e ti r o c n e : n A ta d g ju e s o te f d re p v r e o n f u it e f . rom operations recognised in reserves rather than as a 2024, no further impairment was required.
charge to the income statement in net Excluding such adjusting items and the
l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
finance costs. Accordingly, in 2024, in line impact of translational foreign exchange,
with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share, £42 million the Group’s share of associates and joint
(2023: £45 million) has been recognised as ventures on an adjusted, constant currency
Excluding the adjusting items, in 2024,
a deduction from earnings similar to non- basis declined 6.2% in 2024 to £541 million,
adjusted operating margin increased
controlling interests. driven by the reduction in the Group’s
30 bps to 46.0%, compared to an increase
of 80 bps in 2023. The improvement in Before adjusting items described shareholding in ITC. In 2023, this was an
both years was driven by the financial above, interest related to the Franked increase of 14.5% on 2022 in line with ITC’s
performance of New Categories which Investment Income Group Litigation Order improved performance in that year.
became profitable (on a category (FII GLO), as discussed on page 287
contribution basis) in 2023. (£61 million; 2023: £60 million), a fair value
loss on derivatives related to associates
(£19 million), interest charges in respect of
tax provisions (described in note 8 in the
Notes on the Accounts), and the impact of
translational foreign exchange, adjusted net
finance costs were 10.2% lower in 2024
and 11.6% higher in 2023.
51
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Financial Performance Summary
Continued
Analysis of Profit from Operations, Net Finance Costs and Results from Associates and Joint Ventures - 2024
At constant rates1
Adjusting Impact of Adjusted
Reported items Adjusted exchange at CC1
£m £m £m £m £m
Profit from operations
U.S. 4,087 2,299 6,386 194 6,580
AME (3,464) 6,784 3,320 192 3,512
APMEA 2,113 71 2,184 163 2,347
Total regions 2,736 9,154 11,890 549 12,439
Net finance costs (1,098) (491) (1,589) (27) (1,616)
Associates and joint ventures 1,900 (1,379) 521 20 541
Profit before tax 3,538 7,284 10,822 542 11,364
Analysis of Profit from Operations, Net Finance Costs and results from Associates and Joint Ventures - 2023
At constant rates2
Adjusting Impact of Adjusted
Reported items Adjusted exchange at CC2
£m £m £m £m £m
(Loss)/profit from operations
U.S. (20,781) 27,602 6,821 42 6,863
AME 3,194 266 3,460 87 3,547
APMEA 1,836 348 2,184 195 2,379
Total regions (15,751) 28,216 12,465 324 12,789
Net finance (costs)/income (1,895) 96 (1,799) 5 (1,794)
Associates and joint ventures 585 (8) 577 34 611
(Loss)/profit before tax (17,061) 28,304 11,243 363 11,606
Analysis of Profit from Operations, Net Finance Costs and results from Associates and Joint Ventures - 20223
Adjusting
Reported items Adjusted
£m £m £m
Profit from operations
U.S. 6,205 630 6,835
AME 2,926 422 3,348
APMEA 1,392 833 2,225
Total regions 10,523 1,885 12,408
Net finance (costs)/income (1,641) 34 (1,607)
Associates and joint ventures 442 92 534
Profit before tax 9,324 2,011 11,335
Notes:
1. As translated in 2023 rates of exchange.
2.As translated in 2022 rates of exchange.
3.Effective 2023, the Group changed the regional management structure from four regions to three regions, with 2022 data revised to reflect the new structure.
52
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Tax Group seeks to establish that its position Major taxes paid 2024
In 2024, the tax charge in the income would be more likely than not to prevail. (£bn)
statement was £357 million, compared Transactions between Group subsidiaries
to a credit of £2,872 million in 2023 and are conducted on arm’s-length terms in
a charge of £2,478 million in 2022. accordance with appropriate transfer
pricing rules and the Organisation for
The effective tax rates in the income
Economic Co-operation and Development
statement are therefore 10.1% in 2024,
(OECD) principles.
16.8% in 2023 and 26.6% in 2022. These are
affected by the inclusion of adjusting items The tax strategy outlined above is
described earlier and the associates and applicable to all Group companies, including
joint ventures’ post-tax profit in the the UK Group companies. Reference to tax
Group’s pre-tax results. authorities includes HMRC.
Excluding these items, the underlying tax rate The publication of this strategy is
for subsidiaries was 24.9% in 2024, 24.5% considered to constitute compliance with
in 2023 and 24.8% in 2022. The marginal the duty under paragraph 16(2) Schedule 19
increase in the underlying tax rate in 2024 Part 2 of the UK Finance Act 2016.
largely reflects the mix of profits and The Group is subject to the global £35.7bn
changes in legislation (including the new minimum corporate tax framework
Pillar Two rules, described further below), applicable to multinational enterprise
while the marginal decrease in 2023 largely groups with global revenues over
reflects the absence of one-off rate rises €750 million (Pillar Two rules) from 2024 2023
and mix of profits. 1 January 2024 and has applied the £bn £bn
See the section Non-GAAP measures mandatory exception to recognising and Tobacco excise, net VAT and 32.7 35.3
on page 404 for the computation disclosing information about deferred tax other sales taxes (collected)
of underlying tax rates for the assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two
periods presented. income taxes in accordance with IAS12 Corporation Tax 1.9 2.6
(borne)
Income Taxes. Further information is
During 2023 the Group recognised a further
provided in note 10 in the Notes to Customs and import duties 0.4 0.4
£70 million charge in respect of the ongoing
the Accounts. (borne)
tax disputes in the Netherlands, with a total
provision at 31 December 2024 of £144 The taxation on ordinary activities was a Employment Taxes 0.5 0.6
million. Appeal hearings took place in 2024, charge of £0.4 billion in 2024, a credit of (collected)
with the Court of Appeal judgment £2.9 billion in 2023 and a charge of £2.5 billion Employment taxes 0.2 0.2
expected in the first half of 2025. Please in 2022. Corporation Tax paid (due to the (borne)
refer to page 364, in note 31 of the Notes timing of Corporation Tax instalment Total 35.7 39.1
to the Accounts for further information. payments which straddle different financial
years) was £1.9 billion in 2024, £2.6 billion
Tax strategy In addition to the major taxes, there are
in 2023 and £2.5 billion in 2022.
The Group’s global tax strategy is reviewed a host of other taxes the Group bears and
by the Board. The operation of the strategy Our tax footprint extends beyond collects such as transport taxes, energy
is managed by the Chief Financial Officer Corporation Tax, including significant and environmental taxes, and banking
and Group Head of Tax with the Group’s tax payment of employment taxes and other and insurance taxes.
position reported to the Audit Committee indirect taxes, including customs and The movement in deferred tax shown
on a regular basis. The Board considers tax import duties. The Group also collects below for the year 2024 reflects the
risks that may arise as a result of our taxes on behalf of governments (including Proposed Plans in Canada, described
business operations. In summary, tobacco excise, employee taxes, VAT and further in notes 24 and 31 in the Notes to
the strategy includes: other sales taxes). the Accounts. For the year 2023, the
–complying with all applicable laws The major taxes paid in 2024 of £35.7 billion movement relates primarily to the
and regulations in countries in which (2023: £39.1 billion, 2022: £40.4 billion) impairment of certain of the U.S. acquired
we operate; therefore consist of both taxes borne trademarks. Further details of deferred tax
and taxes collected as shown in the table movements are disclosed in note 16 in the
–being open and transparent with tax
provided. Notes to the Accounts.
authorities and operating to build mature
professional relationships; Tobacco excise, net VAT and other sales
taxes collected was impacted by the sale
–supporting the business strategy of
of the Group's businesses in Russia and
the Group by undertaking efficient
Belarus partway through 2023.
management of our tax affairs in line
with the Group’s commercial activity;
–transacting on an arm’s-length basis Deferred tax asset/(liability)
for exchanges of goods and services
2024 2023 2022
between companies within the
£m £m £m
Group; and
Opening balance (11,281) (17,746) (15,851)
–engaging in pro-active discussions with
tax authorities on occasions of differing Difference on exchange (232) 762 (2,007)
legal interpretation. Credits to the income statement 2,176 5,577 174
Where resolution is not possible, tax Changes in tax rates 249 106 66
disputes may proceed to litigation. The
Other credits/(charges) to other
Group seeks to establish strong technical
comprehensive income (18) 12 (106)
tax positions.
Net reclassification as held-for-sale — 8 (22)
Where legislative uncertainty exists,
resulting in differing interpretations, the Closing balance (9,106) (11,281) (17,746)
53
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Financial Performance Summary
Continued
Earnings Per Share Dividends Diluted earnings per share1
Profit for the year was a profit of The Group pays its dividends to (p)
£3,181 million compared to a loss of shareholders over four quarterly interim
£14,189 million in 2023 (itself a decrease dividends. Quarterly dividends provide 136.0p
of 307% from a profit of £6,846 million shareholders with a more regular flow of
in 2022). dividend income and allow the Company
The relative movement in both years was to spread its substantial dividend
largely driven by the impairment, in 2023, payments more evenly over the year, 2024 136.0
of U.S. goodwill and some of the acquired aligning better with the cash flow 2023 -646.6
combustibles brands totalling £27.3 billion. generation of the Group and so enable
the Company to fund the payments more Definition: Profit attributable to owners of BAT
In 2024, the Group undertook a efficiently. The Board seeks to reward p.l.c. over weighted average number of shares
£700 million share repurchase programme, shareholders with a progressive dividend, outstanding, including the effects of all dilutive
reducing the number of shares (for the potential ordinary shares.
by reference to 65% of adjusted diluted
purposes of the EPS calculation) by 0.62%. EPS over the long-term. l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
After accounting for the movement in
The Board has declared an interim dividend
non-controlling interests in the year, basic Change in adjusted diluted EPS
of 240.24p per ordinary share of 25p,
earnings per share were 136.7p (2023: payable in four equal quarterly instalments (%)
-646.6p; 2022: 293.3p).
of 60.06p per ordinary share in May 2025,
-3.5%
In 2023, the Group reported a loss of August 2025, November 2025 and February
£14,189 million for the year. Following the 2026. This represents an increase of 2.0%
requirements of IAS 33, the impact of share on 2023 (2023: 235.52p per share, up 2.0%)
options would be antidilutive. Therefore, and a payout ratio, on 2024 adjusted diluted
they are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share, of 66.3% (2023: 62.7%). 2024 -3.5%
diluted earnings per share in accordance The quarterly dividends will be paid to 2023 +1.1%
with IFRS in 2023, but are included in the
shareholders registered on either the UK Definition: Change in diluted earnings per share
calculation in 2024 and 2022. As the impact
main register or the South Africa branch before the impact of adjusting items.
of share options on adjusted earnings per
share would be dilutive in 2023, share r
a
e
p
g
p
i
l
s
ic
te
a
r
b
a
le
n
r
d
e
t
c
o
o r
A
d
D
d
S
a
h
te
o
s
ld
.
ers, each on the l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
options are included in adjusted diluted
earnings per share for 2023, as well as Under IFRS, the dividend is recognised in Change in adjusted diluted EPS
2024 and 2022. the year that it is approved by shareholders at constant rates
or, if declared as an interim dividend, by
Diluted earnings per share1 were 136.0p in (%)
Directors, in the period that it is paid.
2024, compared to loss of 646.6p in 2023
(2022: 291.9p profit). The cash flow, prepared in accordance +1.7%
with IFRS, reflects the total cash paid in the
Earnings per share (EPS) are impacted
period. Further details of the total amounts
by the adjusting items discussed earlier.
of dividends paid in 2024 and 2023 (with
Adjusted diluted EPS, as calculated in note
2022 comparatives) are given in note 22
11 in the Notes on the Accounts, was 3.5% 2024 +1.7%
in the Notes on the Accounts.
lower in 2024 at 362.5p, with 2023 ahead 2023 +4.0%
of 2022 by 1.1% at 375.6p. Dividends are declared and payable in
sterling except for those shareholders on Definition: Change in diluted earnings per share
Adjusted diluted EPS at constant rates before the impact of adjusting items and the
the branch register in South Africa, where
would have been 1.7% ahead of 2023 at impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
dividends are payable in rand. The
381.9p, with 2023 up 4.0% against 2022. equivalent dividends receivable by holders l IFRS GAAP l KPI l NON-GAAP
As mentioned earlier, the sale of our of ADSs in US dollars are calculated based
businesses in Russia and Belarus was on the exchange rate on the applicable
completed in September 2023. Due to the payment date.
timing of the transactions, combined with
Further details of the quarterly dividends
a lower underlying performance as we
and key dates are set out under Shareholder
reduced investment and focus on Russia in
Information on pages 449 and 450.
2023, this was a drag on our comparative
performance by 2.0% in 2024, and 1.2% in
2023, at the respective constant rates
of exchange.
Note:
1. Following the requirements of IAS 33, in 2023 the impact
of share options would be antidilutive. Therefore, they
are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings
per share in respect of 2023, but are included in the
calculation in 2024 and 2022.
54
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Treasury and Cash Flow
Treasury, Liquidity The Group continues to maintain Use of facilities
and Capital Structure investment‑grade credit ratings*, with These facilities ensure that the Group has
The Treasury Function is responsible for ratings from Moody's, S&P and Fitch of access to funding to supplement the cash
raising finance for the Group and managing Baa1 (stable outlook), BBB+ (stable outlook), available or generated by the business in
the Group’s cash resources and the BBB+ (stable outlook), respectively.. See the period to meet the operational
financial risks arising from underlying Notes on the Accounts, (including working capital) and general
operations. Clear parameters have been note 26. corporate requirements including, but
established, including levels of authority, The strength of the ratings has not limited to, the timing of payments
on the type and use of financial underpinned debt issuance and the Group in relation to:
instruments to manage the financial risks is confident of its ability to successfully –dividends (2024: £5.2 billion; 2023: £5.1 billion);
facing the Group. Such instruments are access the debt capital markets.
–net capital expenditure (2024: £0.4 billion;
only used if they relate to an underlying
Available facilities 2023: £0.5 billion);
exposure; speculative transactions are
expressly forbidden under the Group’s The Group maintains a £25 billion Euro –Franked Investment Income Group Litigation
treasury policy. All these activities are Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme, Order (FII GLO) as described on page 287;
and U.S. (US$4 billion) and European
carried out under defined policies, –the expected payments in Canada in
(£3 billion) commercial paper programmes
procedures and limits, reviewed and respect of the proposed settlement
to accommodate the liquidity needs of the
approved by the Board, delegating arrangement, as discussed on page 328;
Group. At 31 December 2024, no
oversight to the Chief Financial Officer commercial paper was outstanding –Master Settlement Agreement in the U.S.
and Treasury Function. See note 26 in the (2023: nil outstanding). Cash flows relating (2024: £2.0 billion; 2023: £2.3 billion);
Notes on the Accounts for further detail.
to commercial paper that have maturity –U.S. tax payments deferred from 2024 to
It is the policy of the Group to maximise periods of three months or less are 2025 of £700 million (US$895 million);
financial flexibility and minimise refinancing presented on a net basis in the Group’s
–refinancing obligations;
risk by issuing debt with a range of cash flow statement.
maturities, generally matching the –share repurchase programme; and
The Group’s main bank facility is a syndicated
projected cash flows of the Group and £5.4 billion committed revolving credit facility. –other corporate activity, such as litigation
obtaining this financing from a wide range This facility was undrawn at 31 December or acquisitions, as relevant.
of sources. The Group targets an average
2024 (31 December 2023: undrawn). Management believes that the Group
centrally managed debt maturity of at least
five years of which no more than 20% In March 2024, the Group exercised the has sufficient working capital for present
matures in a single rolling year. As at first of the one-year extension options on requirements, taking into account the
31 December 2024, the average centrally the £2.5 billion 364-day tranche of the amounts of undrawn borrowing facilities
managed debt maturity was 9.5 years revolving credit facility, with the second and levels of cash and cash equivalents,
(2023: 10.5 years) with the highest one-year extension subsequently exercised and the ongoing ability to generate cash.
proportion maturing in a single rolling in February 2025. Effective March 2025, Issuance, drawdowns and
12-month period being 14.8% (2023: 15.7%). therefore, the £2.5 billion 364-day tranche repayment in the period
will be extended to March 2026. –In February 2024, the Group accessed the
In order to manage its interest rate risk,
Additionally, £2.85 billion of the five-year US dollar market under the SEC Shelf
the Group maintains both floating rate
tranche remains available until March Programme, raising a total of
and fixed rate debt. The Group sets targets
2025, with £2.7 billion available to March US$1.7 billion across two tranches;
(within overall guidelines) for the desired
2026 and £2.5 billion available to March
ratio of floating to fixed rate debt (at least –In March 2024, the Group repaid a
2027.
50% fixed on a net basis in the short to £229 million bond at maturity;
medium term). The interest rate profile of Also in 2024, the Group refinanced or –In April 2024, the Group accessed the
liquid assets included in net debt are extended short-term bilateral facilities Euro market under its EMTN
considered to offset floating rate debt and totalling £2.4 billion. As at 31 December Programme, raising a total of
are taken into account in determining the 2024, £nil million was drawn on a short-term €900 million;
net interest rate exposure. At 31 December basis with £2.4 billion undrawn and still
2024, the relevant ratios of floating to fixed available under such bilateral facilities. –To optimise the Group’s debt capital
structure using available liquidity and to
rate borrowings after the impact of Cash flows relating to bilateral facilities
reduce gross and net debt, the Group
derivatives were 22:78 (2023: 10:90). On a that have maturity periods of three months
completed capped cash debt tender
net basis, after offsetting liquid assets and or less are presented on a net basis in the
offers in May 2024, targeting series of
excluding cash and other liquid assets Group’s cash flow statement.
low-priced, long-dated GBP-, EUR- and
(including investments held at fair value) In January 2025, the Group entered into a USD-denominated bonds, pursuant to
in Canada, which are subject to certain medium-term facility of £503 million which the Group repurchased bonds prior
restrictions under Companies' Creditors equivalent which was fully drawn. to their maturity in a principal amount of
Arrangement Act (CCAA) protection, the
Following the initial filing in 2019, the £1.8 billion equivalent; and
relevant ratio of floating to fixed rate
borrowings was 13:87 (2023: 2:98). Group's shelf registration statement on –In August, September and October
Form F-3 was renewed with the SEC in 2024, the Group repaid US$1.9 billion,
As part of the management of liquidity, 2022, pursuant to which B.A.T Capital US$1 billion and €850 million of bonds at
funding and interest rate risk, the Group Corporation, BAT p.l.c. and B.A.T. maturity, respectively.
regularly evaluates market conditions and International Finance p.l.c. may issue debt
may enter into transactions, from time securities guaranteed by certain members In 2023, the Group raised US$5 billion and
to time, to repurchase outstanding debt, of the Group from time to time. This forms €800 million and repaid bonds totalling
pursuant to open market purchases, tender part of the Group’s strategy to ensure €2.3 billion and US$598 million at maturity,
offers or other means. flexible and agile access to capital markets while also repaying £3.1 billion pursuant to
the tender offer targeting a series of GBP-,
and the registration statement is initially
EUR- and USD denominated bonds
valid for three years.
maturing between 2024 and 2027.
55
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Treasury and Cash Flow
Continued
Cash Flow Net cash from/used –An outflow of £128 million (2023: £480
Net cash generated from in investing activities million outflow) related to derivatives; and
operating activities In 2024, net cash from investing activities –The purchases of shares under the 2024
Net cash generated from operating increased to £1,375 million inflow share buy-back programme of
activities decreased by £589 million to (2023: £296 million outflow), due to £698 million.
£10,125 million in 2024, compared to an £1,577 million net proceeds from the partial
In 2024, interest paid increased by 1.2% to
increase of £320 million to £10,714 million monetisation of our investment in ITC. This
£1,703 million (2023: £1,682 million).
in 2023. In 2024, translational foreign combined with a net inflow of £83 million
exchange was a headwind (2023: marginal from short-term investment products, In 2024, the Group repaid borrowings of
headwind) due to the relative movements including treasury bills, which compared to £4.8 billion and issued £2.4 billion of new
of sterling against the Group reporting a net outflow of £43 million in 2023. borrowings. The Group repaid borrowings
currencies, notably the US dollar, in those As described earlier, the Group completed of £6.8 billion in 2023, and issued £5.1 billion
periods. the sale of its businesses in Russia and of new borrowings.
In 2024, the decrease was driven by: Belarus in September 2023. Proceeds of Please refer to note 26 in the Notes
£425 million were received in 2023, net of on the Accounts for further details.
–The realisation, in 2023, of tax credits in
Brazil that did not repeat; cash disposed of £266 million, being a net Cash flow conversion
cash inflow from the disposal of The conversion of profit from operations
–Lower dividends received from the £159 million, as shown in the cash flow to net cash generated from operating
Group's associates of £406 million (2023: statement on page 268. activities may indicate the Group’s ability
£506 million), mainly related to ITC,
Purchases of property, plant and equipment to generate cash from the profits earned.
largely reflecting the reduced
shareholding; were higher than 2023, at £486 million Based upon net cash generated from
(2023: £460 million). operating activities, the Group’s conversion
–A payment of £390 million in respect of
In 2024, the Group invested £581 million rate was 370% compared to -68% in 2023,
an excise assessment in Romania; and
in gross capital expenditure, an increase of impacted, in 2023 by the non-cash charges
–Decreases in tax paid of £1,854 million, 7.3% on the prior year (2023: £541 million). in respect of goodwill and trademark
compared to £2,622 million in 2023 as This includes purchases of property, plant impairments described earlier.
£700 million have been deferred in the and equipment and certain intangibles,
U.S. from 2024 until 2025. and the investment in the Group’s global
During 2024, the Group made the final operational infrastructure (including, but not
payment in respect of the settlement limited to, the manufacturing network, trade
agreements with the DOJ and OFAC in the marketing software and IT systems and the
amount of £267 million (2023: £262 million), expansion of our New Categories portfolio).
while also receiving £132 million following The Group expects gross capital expenditure
the successful conclusion of litigation in 2025 of approximately £650 million.
concerning the Fox River.
Net cash used in financing activities
In 2024, other litigation payments (mainly Net cash used in financing activities
related to Engle and other health-related was an outflow of £10,632 million in 2024
claims in the U.S.) were higher at £147 (2023: £9,314 million outflow), with the
million (2023: £73 million). outflow in each year largely driven by:
In 2023, the Group paid a one time –Dividend payments (2024: £5,213 million,
payment of £59 million to settle the up 3.1%; 2023: £5,055 million, up 2.8%).
investigation by the Nigerian Federal The movement in both years was
Competition and Consumer Protection affected by the higher dividend per share.
Commission (FCCPC). The increase in 2024 was partially offset
The Group made interim repayments to by the reduction in the number of shares
HMRC of £50 million in both 2024 and due to the share buy-back programme
2023, and intends to make further interim undertaken in 2024;
repayments in future periods in respect of –The net repayment of borrowings
the Franked Investment Income Group (2024: £2,422 million; 2023: £1,635 million net
Litigation Order (FII GLO), as described repayment) as described on page 55; and
on page 287.
Summary Cash Flow
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Cash generated from operating activities 11,573 12,830 12,537
Dividends received from associates 406 506 394
Tax paid (1,854) (2,622) (2,537)
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,125 10,714 10,394
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 1,375 (296) (705)
Net cash used in financing activities (10,632) (9,314) (8,878)
Transferred from/(to) to held-for-sale — 368 (368)
Differences on exchange (281) (292) 431
Increase in net cash and cash equivalents in the year 587 1,180 874
56
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Restricted cash
Cash and cash equivalents include
restricted amounts of £2,072 million
(2023: £1,904 million) due to subsidiaries
in CCAA protection (note 32 in the Notes
on the Accounts) as well as £339 million
(2023: £392 million) principally due to
exchange control restrictions.
Investments held at fair value through
profit and loss include restricted amounts
of £437 million (31 December 2023: £446
million) due to investments held by
subsidiaries in CCAA protection, as well as
£60 million (31 December 2023: £89 million)
subject to potential exchange control
restrictions (note 18 in the Notes on the
Accounts).
Borrowings and Net Debt
Total borrowings (which includes lease
liabilities) decreased to £36,950 million in
2024 (2023: £39,730 million). In 2024,
translational foreign exchange, particularly
related to the relative movement of the US
dollar and Euro, was a headwind of £204
million (2023: £1,981 million tailwind).
The movement in borrowings is impacted
by the net repayment of bonds, as discussed
on page 55, driven by the cash generated
by the business after payment of dividends
to shareholders. In 2024, this included the
capped cash debt tender offers and
subsequent repayment prior to their maturity
in a principal amount of £1.8 billion of bonds.
Total borrowings include £670 million
(31 December 2023: £700 million) in respect of
the purchase price adjustments related to the
acquisition of Reynolds American Inc.
As discussed on page 55, the Group remains
confident about its ability to access the debt
capital markets successfully and reviews its
options on a continuing basis.
Net debt is a non-GAAP measure and
is defined as total borrowings (including
related derivatives and lease liabilities)
less cash and cash equivalents and current
investments held at fair value.
Net debt, at 31 December 2024, was
£31,253 million (2023: £34,640 million;
2022: £39,281 million), with the movement
partly due to a foreign exchange headwind
of £674 million in 2024 (2023: £1,338 million
tailwind) and the net repayment in
borrowings described on page 55.
57
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Other Financial Information
Foreign Exchange Rates Accounting Estimates
The principal currency exchange rates used The critical accounting estimates are
to convert the results of the Group's described in note 1 in the Notes on the
foreign operations to sterling, for the Accounts and include:
purposes of inclusion and consolidation –review of asset values, including
within the Group's financial statements, goodwill and impairment testing;
are indicated in the table below.
–estimation of provisions, including as
Where the Group has provided results related to taxation and legal matters,
at constant rates of exchange, this refers specifically in respect of the potential
to the translation of the results from the settlement of the ongoing litigation in
foreign operations at rates of exchange Canada; and
prevailing in the prior period, thereby
–estimation and accounting for
eliminating the potentially distorting
retirement benefit cost.
impact of the movement in foreign
exchange on the reported results. Accounting Judgements
Accounting Policies The critical accounting judgements are
described in note 1 in the Notes on the
The application of the accounting
Accounts and include:
standards and the accounting policies
adopted by the Group are set out in the –identification and quantification of
Group Manual of Accounting Policies and adjusting items;
Procedures (GMAPP). –the determination as to whether the
GMAPP includes the Group instructions disposal of a business or businesses is
in respect of the accounting and reporting significant enough to require disclosure
of business activities, such as revenue as discontinued operations;
recognition, asset valuations and –determination as to whether to recognise
impairment testing, adjusting items, provisions and the exposures to
the accrual of obligations and the appraisal contingent liabilities related to pending
of contingent liabilities, which include taxes litigation (including as related to Canada)
and litigation. Formal processes are in or other outstanding claims;
place whereby central management and
–determination as to whether control
End Market management confirm
(subsidiaries), joint control (joint
adherence to the principles and the
arrangements), or significant influence
procedures and to the completeness of
(associates) exist in relation to
reporting. Central analyses and revision of
investments held by the Group;
information are also performed to ensure
and confirm adherence. –review of applicable exchange rates
for transactions with and translation
In order to prepare the Group’s
of entities in territories where there are
consolidated financial information in
restrictions on the free access to foreign
accordance with IFRS, Management has
currency or multiple exchange rates; and
used estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of revenue, –the determination as to whether
expenses and assets, and the disclosure perpetual hybrid bonds should be
of contingent liabilities, at the date of the classified as equity instead of borrowings.
financial statements.
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average Closing
2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022
Australian dollar 1.937 1.873 1.779 2.023 1.868 1.774
Bangladeshi taka 147.803 134.747 115.040 149.662 139.909 123.502
Brazilian real 6.893 6.208 6.384 7.737 6.192 6.351
Canadian dollar 1.751 1.678 1.607 1.801 1.681 1.630
Chilean peso 1,206.394 1,044.498 1,076.291 1,245.543 1,113.264 1,024.811
Euro 1.181 1.150 1.173 1.209 1.154 1.127
Indian rupee 106.952 102.707 97.030 107.223 106.081 99.516
Japanese yen 193.583 174.883 161.842 196.827 179.721 158.717
Romanian leu 5.877 5.688 5.783 6.018 5.741 5.577
Russian ruble1 102.662 87.184 120.111 87.812
South African rand 23.423 22.962 20.176 23.633 23.313 20.467
Swiss franc 1.125 1.117 1.179 1.135 1.073 1.113
US dollar 1.278 1.244 1.236 1.252 1.275 1.203
Note:
1. As a result of the disposal of the Russian businesses, the 2023 rates reflect the average for the period ended and as at 13 September 2023, respectively.
58
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Assessment as a Going Concern Retirement Benefit Schemes Litigation and Settlements
In conjunction with the assessment of The Group’s subsidiary undertakings As discussed in note 31 in the Notes on
viability, the Directors have also assessed operate defined benefit schemes, including the Accounts, various legal proceedings
the short-term cash flow forecasts and pension and post-retirement healthcare or claims are pending or may be instituted
debt refinancing requirements. schemes, and defined contribution against the Group.
The Group has, at the date of this report, schemes. The most significant Government Activity
sufficient existing financing available for arrangements are in the U.S., the UK, The marketing, sale, taxation and use
its estimated requirements for at least the Canada, Germany, Switzerland and the of tobacco products have been subject
next 12 months and beyond in respect of Netherlands. Together, schemes in these to substantial regulation by government
general corporate purposes, including in territories account for over 90% of the total and health officials for many years.
respect of the Master Settlement underlying obligations of the Group’s
Agreement due in the U.S. in 2025 and defined benefit arrangements and over For information about the risks related
other known liabilities or future payments 70% of the current service cost. Benefits to regulation, see page 157 and pages
(including interim dividends). provided through defined contribution 422 to 430.
schemes are charged as an expense as
The Group has £67 million of future
payments fall due. The liabilities arising in
contractual commitments (2023:
respect of defined benefit schemes are
£60 million) related to property, plant
determined in accordance with the advice
and equipment, as discussed in note 13
of independent, professionally qualified
in the Notes on the Accounts.
actuaries, using the projected unit credit
After reviewing the Group’s annual budget, method. It is Group policy that all schemes
plans and financing arrangements, are formally valued at least every three
including the availability of a £5.4 billion years. Contributions to the defined benefit
revolving credit facility, the Directors schemes are determined after consultation
consider that the Group has adequate with the respective trustees and actuaries
resources to continue operating and that of the individual externally funded schemes,
it is therefore appropriate to continue to taking into account regulatory environments.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing
The present total value of funded scheme
the Annual Report and Form 20‑F.
liabilities as at 31 December 2024 was
Off-balance Sheet Arrangements £5,705 million (2023: £6,417 million), while
and Contractual Obligations unfunded scheme liabilities amounted to
Except for certain indemnities, the Group £734 million (2023: £785 million). The
has no significant off-balance sheet schemes’ assets decreased to £6,612
arrangements other than in respect of million from £7,317 million in 2023, itself a
leaf purchase obligations. The Group has decrease from £7,424 million in 2022.
contractual obligations to make future The overall position for all pension and
payments on debt guarantees. In the healthcare schemes in Group subsidiaries
normal course of business, it enters into amounted to a net asset of £117 million at
contractual arrangements where the the end of 2024, compared to a net asset
Group commits to future purchases of £75 million at the end of 2023.
of goods and services from unaffiliated
and related parties. See page 413 for a
summary of the contractual obligations
as at 31 December 2024.
59
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Strategic Pillar Overview
Tobacco Harm Reduction Acceptance
Sustainable Future A Better Tomorrow™ through THR
Our ambition is to reduce the health impact of our business, and this is
front and centre of our corporate vision to create A Better Tomorrow™
by Building a Smokeless World. This approach is underpinned by
Building a Sustainable Future is about
Tobacco Harm Reduction (THR), which we believe is one of the
seeking to actively encourage adult greatest public health opportunities for global society today.
consumers away from cigarettes and This is why, for several years now, we have been transforming.
Through the development of our portfolio of Smokeless products,
to smokeless alternatives sustainably,
we have invested significant resources into THR. This has resulted
responsibly and with integrity. in Smokeless products becoming more acceptable to adult
consumers who would otherwise continue to smoke, and
Science will be a primary driver of commercially sustainable. Our engagement with regulators and
policy makers on THR is underpinned by our open and transparent
our efforts, supported by more active
regulatory positions.
external engagement and regulatory Ultimately, we believe that our THR ambition will be quantified by a
focus, while embedding sustainability significant reduction in projected population level smoking-related
morbidity and mortality.
across our organisation.
Why THR is important
We know combustible cigarettes pose serious health risks, and that
the only way to avoid those risks is not to start smoking or to quit.
The key building blocks of the The World Health Organization estimates that smoking-related
Sustainable Future pillar are: diseases cause over eight million deaths globally each year1.
THR is a well-recognised public health strategy that aims to
Tobacco Harm Reduction Acceptance minimise the harm caused by smoking. This is done by encouraging
adult smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke to switch
Shaping the Landscape completely to reduced-risk*†, Smokeless alternatives.
Leading in Sustainability and Integrity Our aim is to provide such consumers with a range of products
that deliver comparable satisfaction in nicotine delivery, use, and
sensorial aspects. For example, while we are clear that our
Smokeless products are not cessation products and are not
Our commitments under
marketed as such, some independent studies suggest that Vapour
Sustainable Future: products are more successful than nicotine replacement therapy
in helping people stop smoking2 by providing a satisfactory
Building a Smokeless World alternative to cigarettes.
Investing in the products, science Over the past decade, significant progress has been made to
accelerate the global THR journey. Today, there are four global
and engagement to make A Better categories of reduced-risk*† products: Heated Products, Vapour
Tomorrow TM a reality Products, Oral Tobacco Products and Oral Nicotine Pouches.
The global adoption of these Smokeless product categories over
Conducting our business responsibly
the last 10 years is sizeable. It is estimated that there are now more
and with integrity than 115 million consumers of Smokeless products3. The latest
estimate of the global number of vapers alone is 82 million.4
We know that stakeholders increasingly expect us to demonstrate
that we are a purpose-driven enterprise. We are working towards
a future where, ultimately, we move away from combustible
cigarettes.
World-class science
Demonstrating the reduced-risk*† status, compared to smoking,
of Smokeless products can only be achieved through robust
science. This is why we invest significantly each year to find
innovative ways to contribute to THR.
We use various analytical and pre-clinical techniques, specialised
laboratory technology and expertise to test our products, and aim
to ensure they meet high quality standards.
This is complemented by collaborations with global external
researchers, and clinical research organisations, who bring
independent and specialist expertise that enhances our
internal capabilities.
We are always innovating, experimenting, and delivering new
Tobacco Harm Reduction solutions. This is why our Science and
Product Innovation are so important to the business, accelerating
pioneering approaches to our Smokeless products portfolio.
60
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
THR substantiation: Our nine-step As well as publishing our own research, our The success of THR will depend as much
risk assessment framework scientists also monitor and review external on progressive regulation as it will on
As most Smokeless alternatives are publications to gain a holistic view of the changes in consumer behaviour. We
relatively new to the market, they lack the evidence base. believe both are essential if countries
long-term epidemiological data, observed We work hard to make our science around the world are to achieve the accepted
over many years, that could show their accessible and understandable to a wider ‘smoke-free’ threshold of less than 5%
overall impact on public health. That is why audience. We have a dedicated website smoking incidence in the population.
it is necessary to take a 'weight of evidence' www.bat-science.com. Most recently, Countries like Sweden have already started
approach, using the best available data to we launched Omni™, an evidence-based to demonstrate the art of the possible with
draw conclusions. manifesto for change, which captures THR. With the lowest smoking rates in
Drawing on work by the U.S. Institute of BAT’s commitment and progress towards Europe - 5.3% relative to the EU average
Medicine, we use our nine-step risk Building a Smokeless World to create of 23% in 2023, Sweden is on the verge
assessment framework. This evaluates A Better Tomorrow™. Backed by over of achieving its ‘no smoking target’ years
the emissions, exposure and risk profile of our a decade of evidence and experience, ahead of the 2040 EU target. This is due
New Category products and compares them Omni™ offers insights into our scientific to the widespread awareness, availability
to smoking cigarettes or other comparators, and real-world evidence of Tobacco Harm and usage of snus and other smokeless
such as nicotine replacement therapy. Reduction (THR) in action. alternatives.
In terms of THR scientific substantiation, Product innovation and choice
our Heated Products, Vapour, and Modern Adult consumer choice is an important
Oral products have been reported in component of THR success. We recognise
peer-reviewed pre-clinical, clinical, and that smokers are most likely to switch
population level research publications to Smokeless alternatives when they
and journals, summarising significant find a product that delivers convenience
reductions in emissions, exposure and and comparable satisfaction in the
risk levels versus smoking. sensorial experience.
We aim to follow best practice and adhere That is why we offer a multi-category
to high standards of governance and ethics portfolio of Smokeless alternatives tailored
in all our scientific research. Regardless to meet the varied preferences of different
of the results, we are committed to sharing adult smoker consumer segments. Importantly,
the outcomes. Our scientists have our products are supported by world-class
published more than 270 scientific papers science and robust product safety and
to date about our New Category products. quality standards.
Our New Categories product innovation
+ For more information on Tobacco Harm
Reduction, see page 72 to 77 pipeline is based on data-driven foresights + Read more about our sustainability
to anticipate category and consumer strategy and progress on pages 64 to 154
Shaping the Landscape trends. Using consumer insights we
THR and nicotine deliver new product propositions that
For adult smokers who would otherwise are consumer-centric in their design and
continue to smoke, a choice of alternative performance, to meet the most important Notes:
Smokeless products to completely switch consumer preferences and opportunities. * Based on the weight of evidence and assuming
a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These
to is important. Our approach to regulation products are not risk free and are addictive.
Societal sentiment towards nicotine is also We recognise and support the objective † Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo,
Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA
crucial in THR. Particularly as a common of governments to reduce smoking rates
regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as
misconception is that nicotine, as a and associated health impacts. to these products without agency clearance.
substance, is the cause of smoking-related 1. Word Health Organization, WHO report on the global
We have always been clear that we tobacco epidemic 2021: addressing new and emerging
diseases. However, the primary cause of
support regulation which is based on products. 2021. Available at: https://iris.who.int/
such diseases is not exposure to nicotine, robust evidence, tailored to local handle/10665/343287
but the toxicants released by the burning circumstances, and delivers on the 2. Lindson N, Butler AR, McRobbie H, Bullen C, Hajek P,
of tobacco. Begh R, Theodoulou A, Notley C, Rigotti NA, Turner T,
intended policy aims, while preventing Livingstone-Banks J, Morris T, Hartmann-Boyce J.
This fact is recognised by several unintended consequences such as the Electronic cigarettes for smoking cessation. Cochrane
regulators (including the U.S. FDA) and growth in illicit markets. Database of Systematic Reviews 2024, Issue 1. Art.
No.: CD010216. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010216.pub8.
public health stakeholders (including the
Although not risk-free, recent technological 3. Tobacco Intelligence, Regulatory & Market Intelligence
UK Royal College of Physicians). and scientific advancements in Smokeless for Alternative Tobacco & Nicotine Products, Nicotine
Pouch Market Database, Quarter 1 Report. 2024.
However, currently more than 60% of products offer consumers the opportunity
4. Jerzyński, T. and Stimson, G.V. (2023), "Estimation of the
adults and 80% of doctors believe that to enjoy nicotine products, without the global number of vapers: 82 million worldwide in 2021",
nicotine causes cancer.5,7 need to burn tobacco. Drugs, Habits and Social Policy, Vol. 24 No. 2, pp. 91-103.
Available at: www.doi.org/10.1108/DHS-07-2022-0028
With this level of misperception, and Our experience shows that where risk- 5. World, F. for a S.-F. (n.d.). Nearly 80% of Doctors
nicotine being a highly politicised topic, proportionate regulation encourages Worldwide Mistakenly Believe Nicotine Causes Lung
society's understanding of nicotine is one smokers to choose these Smokeless Cancer, Thwarting Efforts to Help One Billion Smokers
Quit. [online] www.prnewswire.com. Available at:
of several key challenges that still needs to alternatives instead of cigarettes, smoking www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nearly-80-of-
be overcome to enable further THR progress. rates can be more effectively reduced doctors-worldwide-mistakenly-believe-nicotine-causes-
Through our global science engagement compared to relying on coercive policies l s u m ng o - k c e a rs n - c q e u r i - t t - h 3 w 01 a 8 rt 8 in 16 g 5 - 5 ef .h fo tm rts l. -to-help-one-billion-
programme, we seek to progress our which are either not based on evidence 6. Fagerström, K. (2022). Can alternative nicotine products
science with external scientists via peer or which seek to prohibit products put the final nail in the smoking coffin? Harm Reduction
review publications and conferences. or behaviours.7 Journal, 19(1). doi:doi.org/10.1186/s12954-022-00722-5.
7. Weiger C, Moran MB, Kennedy RD, Limaye R, Cohen J.
Beliefs and Characteristics Associated With Believing
Nicotine Causes Cancer: A Descriptive Analysis to
Inform Corrective Message Content and Priority
Audiences. Nicotine Tob Res. 2022;24(8):1264-1272.
doi:10.1093/ntr/ntac060.
61
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Strategic Pillar Overview
Continued
Our views on regulation of Smokeless –Allow adult-only access: Regulation We believe a stakeholder-inclusive,
tobacco and nicotine products should enable adults to access and gain whole-of-society, open and honest
We believe regulation should recognise information about the availability of dialogue is essential. That dialogue should
that Smokeless tobacco and nicotine reduced-risk* products, while preventing include regulators, policy-makers, public
products are less risky than cigarettes and use by the underage. health, consumers, and the industry.
support their use as an alternative for those –Enable effective enforcement: It is key to align all stakeholders on the
adult smokers who would otherwise Regulation should include an effective positive public health potential and develop
continue smoking combustible products. regime for penalties, sanctions and effective policies and consumer behaviour
There are four guiding principles that we enforcement to drive compliance. that can accelerate Tobacco Harm
believe should be applied to the Regulation of New Category products Reduction as quickly as possible. Regulation
development of any regulation of continues to evolve. Globally, there are around New Category products should be
Smokeless products: some regulators passing progressive laws founded on evidence and science, not opinion.
–Based on science and evidence: that encourage adult smokers who would Our views on a general regulatory
Regulation should be based on the best otherwise continue to smoke to switch framework, to maximise Smokeless
available science and evidence for each to New Category products, but there products’ harm reduction potential, are
product category and be proportionate are other regulators who view them outlined on page 63.
to the risk of the product versus more cautiously.
combustible tobacco. As the science and evidence to
–Ensure product quality and consumer substantiate these products grows,
relevance: Regulation should mandate we hope to see more countries passing
robust product quality and safety progressive regulations, further
standards to protect consumers and accelerating New Category growth and
allow access to products with satisfying accelerating a reduction in smoking rates.
nicotine levels and adult-targeted flavours.
Note:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
62
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Maximising the harm reduction potential of Smokeless products:
A regulatory framework
In all countries, whether such a framework is in place or not, we are guided by our Product
Stewardship approach – for quality and safety standards, and our Responsible Marketing
Principles and Responsible Marketing Code to ensure that we market our products responsibly.
ACCESS TO CONSUMER ADULT-ONLY
RELEVANT PRODUCTS CONSUMERS
–Regulations in all countries where cigarettes are sold should also –The use and sale of smokeless tobacco and nicotine products
allow a wide range of Smokeless alternatives to smoking to by and to the underage should be prohibited by law.
ensure that consumers can access these alternatives and make –Age-verification mechanisms should be mandated at point
informed choices. of purchase and, where feasible, regulation should aim to
–Nicotine levels should be established to ensure Smokeless encourage the integration of underage access prevention
products are a satisfying alternative for adult smokers. technologies.
–A variety of adult-targeted flavours should be available, as –Communication is necessary to provide adult consumers
evidence shows that certain flavours help smokers transition with accurate information about reduced-risk products*†.
to reduced-risk*† alternatives. Flavours, packaging designs and Communication with adults should be permitted in adult-
descriptors that are particularly appealing to the underage targeted touchpoints and display responsible content.
should be prohibited. –Any communication with consumers should have a clear and
–Regulation should keep pace and be adaptable to new product visible health warning and inform that nicotine-containing
innovation. This would allow scientific and technological products are for adults only.
advancements to deliver consumer-relevant new product
propositions and solutions, so that smokers can access even
better options to switch away from combustible cigarettes.
PRODUCT QUALITY ROBUST
AND SAFETY ENFORCEMENT
–Robust and properly enforced product quality and safety standards –Regulation should provide enforcement authorities with the
should be at the heart of any regulation, to protect consumers. necessary powers to apply penalties and sanctions to those
–Products should be used as intended by consumers and who fail to comply with regulations, particularly those who
manufacturers should be required to ensure that all products are supply non-compliant products and provide products to
tamper-evident to secure product integrity. those underage.
Notes:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these products
without agency clearance.
63
Tackling
global challenges
SUSTAINABILITY SECTION
64
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Message from our
Chief Corporate Officer
Dear Stakeholders,
As we transform our business, We are delighted to present an update on
the progress we have made towards our
we remain steadfast in our sustainability commitments. While 2024
was marked by global political, economic
and environmental challenges, our
purpose of building A Better
sustainability strategy remains focused
on our purpose-led transformation.
Tomorrow™.
Our purpose – to create A Better Tomorrow™
by Building a Smokeless World – is anchored
in reducing the health impact of our
business. In doing so, maintaining a long-term
vision and resilience in the face of evolving
challenges remains of paramount importance.
Sustainability is a core part of our Group
transformation strategy.
As we work towards our vision of Building
a Smokeless World, we recognise that we
must transform responsibly.
We strive to reduce our use of natural
resources, enhance the communities in which
we operate, and deliver on our climate goals.
In 2024, we refined our sustainability
strategy, focusing on five impact areas:
–Tobacco Harm Reduction (THR)
–Climate
–Nature
Kingsley Wheaton
–Circularity
Chief Corporate Officer
–Communities
Deriving from our Double Materiality
Assessment (DMA)^, these impact areas
comprehensively capture our value chains
and the views of both our internal and
external stakeholders.
The following section of the Combined
Annual and Sustainability Report not only
demonstrates the progress we are making
towards our commitments through third-party
assured data, but also includes featured stories
from across our global operations. These
underline how our global sustainability strategy
is pursued and executed at a local level.
We are proud to have received a Triple-A
rating from CDP for our 2024 disclosures
on Climate Change, Water Security and
Forest, reflecting our commitment to
environmental transparency and action.
We are encouraged by the progress we are
making towards building A Better Tomorrow™.
Kingsley Wheaton
+ Read more about our sustainability ratings
performance in our 'Sustainability
Performance Data Book' at bat.com/
reporting
Note:
^ Although financial materiality has been considered in
the development of our Double Materiality Assessment
(DMA), our DMA and any conclusions in this document
as to the materiality or significance of sustainability
matters do not imply that all topics discussed therein
are financially material to our business taken
as a whole, and such topics may not significantly alter
the total mix of information available about our securities.
65
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Our Sustainability Strategy
We seek to take a leading role in tackling some
of the biggest global sustainability challenges.
We aim to do this by responsibly Building a Smokeless World,
reducing our use of natural resources and delivering our climate
goals as we transition to A Better Tomorrow™. We strive to create
a meaningful impact in the communities where we operate and
inspire all our people to drive change.
Discussing the Group’s sustainability strategy with
Donato Del Vecchio, Chief Sustainability Officer.
We have refined our Group sustainability strategy
In order to better address our material In my career at BAT, one constant truth
sustainability topics^ and continue delivering has emerged: our markets serve as the
Our sustainability
value to our stakeholders, we have refined backbone of our business.
our Group sustainability strategy. It is their collective effort that drives the
strategy is a
By engaging with a cross-section of Group's achievements, and that is why
stakeholder groups, we have gained a this year's sustainability report highlights
testament to
better understanding of our challenges the global challenges businesses like ours
and opportunities, resulting in the face, and the actions we are taking to
our dedication to
identification of the five strategic impact address them.
areas, outlined below. The following section evidences the local
creating A Better
These areas are supported by external actions shared by practitioners across our
reporting, stakeholder engagement markets, and provides an overview of our
Tomorrow™.
and responsible business practices, ambitions, impact, and performance at
guiding our future sustainability targets the Group level.
and ambitions. We hope this overview demonstrates
Our strategy reflects what's important to the Group’s efforts towards making a
our employees, consumers, communities, meaningful impact.
investors, suppliers, and business partners.
Five strategic impact areas
Note:
^ Although financial materiality has been considered in the development of our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA), our DMA and any conclusions in this document as to the materiality
or significance of sustainability matters do not imply that all topics discussed there in are financially material to our business taken as a whole, and such topics may not significantly alter
the total mix of information available about our securities.
66
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
+ Find out more:
Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for an
overview of our sustainability performance
data at bat.com/reporting
THR
Over the past decade, we have transformed our business Omni ™ is an evidence-based
and made significant progress on our goals. However, Building manifesto for change, which
a Smokeless World is not without its roadblocks. captures BAT’s commitment
and progress towards
We believe that progressive, evidence-based regulation – supported Building a Smokeless World
by meaningful enforcement – is the key to reducing smoking rates. to create A Better
Tomorrow
™.
We seek to engage with public health authorities and regulators,
to support the development of policies and strategies that balance www.asmokelessworld.com
Tobacco Harm Reduction objectives with key concerns, such as
underage access, environmental impacts and product safety.
+ Read more about THR
on page 72
CLIMATE NATURE
We continue to transition towards a low For many years, our Global Leaf Agronomy
carbon economy by reducing our Scope 1 Development (GLAD) centre has worked
and 2 GHG emissions through improving with our directly contracted farmers and
energy efficiencies and increasing Leaf suppliers to promote improved
renewable energy use where available. agricultural technologies and practices.
We also continue to engage suppliers Adoption of technology in agriculture
through our supplier enablement programme is a core part of our nature strategy.
to tackle Scope 3 GHG emissions. We are investing in AI-driven tools to
In line with our climate transition efforts, accelerate the analysis of agricultural data,
we continue to focus on responsible to help farmers increase yields, reduce
sourcing practices and innovative product costs and minimise their environmental
design to reduce our carbon footprint. impact.
+ Read more about CLIMATE + Read more about NATURE
on page 78 on page 86
CIRCULARITY COMMUNITIES
Transitioning to a portfolio of Smokeless Our global footprint covers multiple supply
products presents challenges, particularly chains, from agriculture to electronics and
in relation to plastic waste. manufacturing.
Our focus is on prioritising the use of We support our farmers to enhance their
materials that are sustainably produced livelihoods and build resilience, while keeping
and have a lower carbon footprint. in mind our ambition to transition to a
Our corporate venturing arm, Btomorrow Smokeless World.
Ventures (BTV), actively scouts for and We seek to responsibly source materials
collaborates with startups to identify and respect the rights of our communities.
sustainable materials as well as solutions Our direct employees are an integral part of
for waste reduction and resource recovery. our communities. We continue to build on
We intend to design our product portfolio our culture so that everyone feels welcome
with circularity in mind and educate our and valued for their unique contribution
consumers on its value. at work.
+ Read more about CIRCULARITY + Read more about COMMUNITIES
on page 94 on page 102
67
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
2024 Sustainability Highlights
Launched Omni™, our evidence-based manifesto for change,
which captures our commitment and progress towards creating
A Better Tomorrow™ by Building a Smokeless World.
Updated our Responsible Marketing Principles (RMP) to reflect regulatory
developments, our product portfolio and stakeholder expectations.
Underlined our position on underage access, product safety and regulatory
enforcement through the publication of our ‘Commitment to Responsible
THR Vaping Products’1.
Progressed towards our Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction targets. Energy
reduction initiatives and increasing the use of renewable fuels resulted in a
42.6% reduction in these emissions versus our 2020 baseline.
Reduced our total Scope 3 GHG emissions by 11% year-on-year. 23.5%
of our suppliers of purchased goods and services by spend have now set
Science Based Targets, an 8.5 percentage points increase versus 2023.
Submitted our Net Zero Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions targets for
validation to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), in line with our
CLIMATE climate transition efforts.
Introduced a satellite monitoring system in Brazil to detect potential
deforestation or conversion cases by tracking forest cover changes
over time.
Developed a regenerative agriculture framework which will be piloted
in 2025. The framework includes a methodology for assessing and
prioritising local risks and the monitoring of progress on the regeneration
of the farmland ecosystem.
Achieved our 2025 target for reduction in water withdrawn in 2023,
two years ahead of schedule. We continue to work on maintaining
NATURE
this target, achieving a 47.4% reduction in 2024 (versus our 2017 baseline).
Introduced and began testing a set of ecodesign principles, which will
provide insights to support the reduction of our environmental impacts
across the product life cycle.
Launched in France, Ireland, Denmark, Sweden and the UK, two variants of
Velo cans that were certified by the International Sustainability and Carbon
Certification (ISCC), for using bio-plastic or Post-Consumer Resin (PCR)
plastic through a mass-balance approach2.
Partnered with a waste management company, to pilot a collection
and recycling programme in Nottinghamshire in the UK for used
CIRCULARITY
vapour products.
Revised our living income methodology to better represent living costs in
rural areas and are in the process of co-creating action plans with suppliers
to target key income drivers for farmers.
In response to our growing electronics supply chain, we continue to work
with the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) as a Supporter Member. This
gives us access to the Responsible Mineral Initiative and RBA-approved
auditors who conduct on-site labour audits of our suppliers.
Maintained our year-on-year consistency in compensating men
and women within 1% of one another, as well as Ethnically Diverse3 and
COMMUNITIES Non-ethnically Diverse3 groups within 1% of one another for performing
the same work or work of equal value.
Notes:
1. bat.com/commitment-to-responsible-vaping-products
2. ‘Mass-balance' is a principle that matches inputs (such as plastic waste) with outputs from a recycling or production process, to determine the recycled content (source: zerowasteeurope.eu/
wp-content/uploads/2021/05/rpa_2021_mass_balance_booklet-2.pdf).
3. See note 3 on p.111 for the definitions of Ethnically Diverse and Non-ethnically Diverse for the purposes of our International Pay Equity Analysis.
68
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Tracking Progress
+ ‡ Find out more: Refer to the BAT
'Reporting Criteria' for an overview
of our sustainability performance data
at bat.com/reporting
50% of our revenue from Smokeless 50 million Smokeless product Full compliance with marketing
products by 2035 consumers by 20301 regulations
% of revenue from Smokeless products Number of consumers‡ (millions) Number of incidents of non-compliance
excluding Russia and Belarus with marketing regulations resulting in a
fine or penalty
0 20% 0 50 0 5
2022 14.8% 2022 22.3 2022 2
2023 16.5% 2023 25.5 2023 3
2024 17.5% 2024 29.1 2024 2
50% absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 30.3% absolute reduction in Scope 3 42% absolute reduction in Scope 3
GHG emissions by 2030 versus 2020 Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) GHG Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions by
baseline2 emissions by 2030 versus 2020 baseline2 2030 versus 2020 baseline2
% change in emissions relative to baseline % change in emissions relative to baseline % change in emissions relative to baseline
0 -50 % +50 0 -30% +50 0 -42%
2022 -18.4% 2021 18% 2021 4%
2023 -27.1% 2022 6% 2022 2%
2024 -42.6% 2023 -22% 2023 -9.8%
Deforestation and Conversion Free Deforestation Free pulp and paper 35% reduction in water withdrawn
tobacco supply chain by 2025 supply chain by 2025 by 2025 versus 2017 baseline
% wood used in our Thrive Supply Chain3 % of pulp and paper materials sourced % reduction in water withdrawal relative
with Deforestation and Conversion Free with low risk of deforestation to base year
(DCF) Status
0 100% 0 100% 0 50%
2022 95.5% 2023 69.3% 2022 33%
2023 96.5% 2024 86.3% 2023 39.2%
2024 98.5% 2024 47.4%
25% reduction in waste 100% packaging to be reusable, Less than 1% of our operational waste
generated in own operations recyclable or compostable where going to landfill by 2025
by 2025 versus 2017 baseline facilities exist by 2025
% reduction in operational % of packaging reusable, recyclable % of operational waste going to landfill
waste generated or compostable
0 40% 0 100% 0 6%
2022 21.3% 2022 92% 2022 4.9%
2023 28.2% 2023 94% 2023 1.8%
2024 31.0% 2024 97% 2024 1.3%
Aiming for zero child labour incidents 100% of product materials and higher- Increase the proportion of women
in our tobacco supply chain by 2025 risk indirect suppliers having an independent on Senior Leadership teams‡ to 40%
labour audit within a three-year cycle by 2025 by 2025
% of incidents of child labour identified % suppliers undergoing labour % female representation on Senior
and reported as resolved by end of the audits during the last three years Leadership teams
growing season
0 100% 0 100% 0 40%
2022 100% 2022 36.6% 2022 31.0%
2023 100% 2023 58.8% 2023 33.6%
2024 100% 2024 90.6% 2024 36.5%
Notes: 1. In 2024, we enhanced our reporting methodology by increasing the use of data obtained from consumer panels compared to estimations. In the prior year (2023) we reported 23.9 million
consumers. The restated value is 25.5 million consumers. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting. 2. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030
science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions target includes purchased goods and services, upstream
transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these
targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating Scope 3 data from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics.
Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting. 3. Our ambitions cover all tobacco we purchase for our products (‘tobacco supply chain’); which is used in our
combustibles, Traditional Oral and Heated Products. Our metrics, however, derive data from our annual Thrive assessment, which includes our directly contracted farmers and those of our third-
party suppliers, which represented over 93% of the tobacco we purchased by volume in 2024 (‘Thrive Supply Chain’).
69
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
^
Double Materiality Assessment
We have assessed our impact and financial Overview
We conducted our first DMA^ in 2022, and in 2023,
materiality in line with the evolution
expanded our DMA in line with reporting best practices
of sustainability reporting. at the time. This consisted of a nested approach, which
articulated three dimensions of impact:
Outward impact:
Our approach to sustainability reporting Our impact on environment, society and
governance-related topics;
In 2024 we further enhanced our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA) Inward impact:
with reference to the latest available European Sustainability Reporting The impact of these topics on the Group; and
Standards (ESRS) at the time. Financial materiality:
The understanding of risks and opportunities
As we prepare for CSRD reporting we have continued to report with
posed by these topics on the Group's financial
reference to other relevant frameworks, such as:
position.
–Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);
2023 Double Materiality Assessment
–Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB);
The results of our 2023 assessment identified that
–Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR) Principal Adverse
11 topics are material^ to BAT. These are:
Impacts (PAI);
–Tobacco Harm Reduction
–Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD); and
–Climate Change
–Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD).
–Circular Economy
–Human Rights
–Biodiversity and Ecosystems
–Water
–Employees, Diversity and Culture
–Farmer Livelihoods and Community
–Supplier Engagement
–Marketing and Communications
–Ethics and Integrity
The topics form the basis of our current reporting.
2024 Double Materiality Assessment
In 2024, we enhanced our DMA, to prepare for EU
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
reporting in 2026, in relation to year-end 2025.
As part of the process, we mapped our value chain
components, including:
–Own operations;
–Upstream (Leaf and procurement of goods and
Our sustainability services); and
–Downstream (Warehousing and Trade Marketing
performance and Distribution).
These are the basis for identifying and assessing the
highlights our
business impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs)
connected with our products, services and business
progress, including relationships.
A scoring framework was applied to determine the
both areas of
IROs' materiality. These were validated with internal
and external stakeholders.
success and of
Our material IROs are the basis of the information we
intend to report on in our first CSRD Report.
future strategic
We are in the process of identifying the relevant
disclosure requirements and data points under CSRD
impact.
and will continue to work towards compliance.
Note:
^ Although financial materiality has been considered in the development of
Giulia Scanferla our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA), our DMA and any conclusions
in this document as to the materiality or significance of sustainability
Head of Sustainability Regulatory Reporting matters do not imply that all topics discussed therein are financially
material to our business taken as a whole, and such topics may not
significantly alter the total mix of information available about our securities.
70
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2023 DMA Materiality Dimensions What is a Double Materiality
Assessment?
Impact materiality
A sustainability materiality
BAT’s impact on health, assessment is a formal process
environment, society and through which a company identifies,
governance-related topics
assesses, and prioritises
sustainability topics.
Recently, various standard setters and
regulatory bodies have refined the
concept of sustainability materiality.
The International Sustainability
Standard Board (ISSB) applies a 'single
materiality' approach whereas CSRD
requires a 'double materiality'
approach.
Double materiality acknowledges that
businesses should assess both the
risks and opportunities linked to
sustainability topics that can influence
enterprise value creation and a
company’s impact on the environment
and society.
Financial materiality
Financial impact of health,
environment, society and
governance-related topics
on BAT
2023 DMA Material Topics Double Materiality Matrix
Impact Areas
THR
Harm Reduction
Marketing & Communications
CLIMATE
Climate Change
NATURE
Water
Biodiversity & Ecosystems
CIRCULARITY
Circular Economy
COMMUNITIES
Employees, Diversity & Culture
Human Rights
Supplier Engagement
Farmer Livelihoods & Communities
Note:
* Ethics & Integrity is a core commitment under the
Sustainable Future pillar of our corporate strategy.
71
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
IMPACT AREA
THR
GLOBAL CHALLENGE
Tobacco Harm Reduction
acceptance is not
without roadblocks.
Achieving our THR ambition requires changes in consumer
behaviour and in society itself, particularly regarding
regulations and public health policies.
This involves access to new markets that currently do not
allow for Smokeless products and working towards the
acceptance of THR.
72
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
LOCAL ACTIONS
Investing in research
and development to
contribute to THR
Sweden: Soon to be Europe’s First
‘Smoke-free’ Country
The widespread adoption of oral nicotine products and
snus in Sweden has helped reduce smoking rates among
people over 16 from 15% in 2008 to 5.3% in 2024.1
The World Health Organization (WHO) considers countries
to be smoke-free when smoking prevalence is less than 5% of
the population.2 Making these products more widely available
could help achieve similar outcomes in other countries.
New Zealand’s case
In 2024, we published the findings from a multi-year study
by our Research and Science teams. The results
illustrates how regulation
contributed to the weight of evidence that our Velo nicotine
pouches should be considered as a reduced-risk*† can drive THR.
alternative product compared to traditional cigarettes.3
An additional study tested the toxicological impact of Velo Peter Simmons
pouches containing different flavours and nicotine
Area Director, APMEA South & GM Australia
strength, and showed no increase in the adverse impact on
cells further underscoring the reduced-risk profile of Velo
A Global THR Leader
pouches relative to cigarettes.4
Following in the footsteps of Sweden,
New Zealand is also on the verge of
<5%
becoming smoke-free by 2025. This success
can be attributed to the government’s pragmatic
endorsement of Vapour products, alongside
WHO considers countries to be smoke-free regulations to prevent underage access.
when smoking prevalence is less than 5%2
In New Zealand, the introduction of Vapour
products is associated with a decrease in the daily
smoking rate, which dropped to 6.9% in 2023/24.5
With smoking rates so low, ASH New Zealand
says the country remains on track to reach its
2025 smoke-free goal of less than 5%.6
Sweden has
Notes:
demonstrated that
1. Swedish Government Statistics. Available at: fohm-
app.folkhalsomyndigheten.se/Folkhalsodata/pxweb/sv/A_Folkhalsodata/
Tobacco Harm A_Folkhalsodata__B_HLV__aLevvanor__aagLevvanortobak/hlv1tobcfod.px/
2. World Health Organization, Tobacco-free generations: Protecting children
from tobacco in the WHO European Region. 2017. Available at:
Reduction can be www.who.int/europe/publications/m/item/tobacco-free-generations---
protecting-children-from-tobacco-in-the-who-european-region#
3. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383571824000147?via%3Dihub
accelerated 4. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214750021000317?via%3Dihub
5. www.health.govt.nz/publications/annual-update-of-key-results-202324-
through providing new-zealand-health-survey
6. www.ash.org.nz/
smoking_rate_continues_record_decline_to_only_6_8_daily_use_m_ori_an
smokers access d_pacific_rates_are_also_reduced
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from
cigarette smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
to Smokeless
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and
Camel Snus, are subject to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims
products. will be made as to these products without agency clearance.
Go online to learn
more about our approach
to sustainability
bat.com/sustainability-
and-esg
Asli Ertonguc
Area Director,Western Europe
73
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Our Tobacco Harm Reduction ambition
OUR AMBITION
Migrating adult
smokers from
cigarettes to
Smokeless products.
To begin with, we are very clear that Smokeless
products are not risk-free.
The best choice any adult smoker can make will always
be quitting combustible tobacco products completely.
Yet many do not.
We believe that progressive, evidence-based regulation
– supported by meaningful enforcement – is the key to
reducing smoking rates.
We seek to engage with public health authorities and
regulators, to support the development of policies and
strategies that balance THR objectives with key
concerns, such as underage access, environmental
impacts and product safety.
Scientific engagement
is vital now more than ever.
The science behind Smokeless
products is what
will guide regulation,
and support wider
acceptance of
Tobacco Harm
Reduction.
Dr Elaine Round
Group Head of Life Sciences
74
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
How we’ll get there
Migrating smokers to Smokeless products.
Ambitions:
We invest more than £300 million a year in the research and development 50% of our revenue
of Smokeless products. We continue to enhance our capabilities while from Smokeless
collaborating with researchers around the globe. products by 2035
Our multidisciplinary team of scientists make sure all our products meet high
quality standards in line with our Product Stewardship Framework and our 50m consumers‡
Group Quality Policy Statement, which set out our approach to developing of our Smokeless
and manufacturing our products responsibly and formalise how we strive to products by 2030
deliver high-quality products.
Our Global Toxicology team conducts in-depth toxicological and safety risk
+ ‡ Find out more:
assessments of the ingredients and materials we use to ensure that they Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
meet the standards required to bring our products to market. for a full description of key terms
and definitions at bat.com/reporting
+ Read more about our policies
and procedures on pages 116 to 117
An illustrative model of Tobacco Harm Reduction (THR) potential
The concept of THR aims to mitigate the adverse health effects associated with continued smoking by encouraging adult smokers who
will not otherwise quit to switch completely to reduced-risk*† alternatives1. It offers such smokers a method of using non-combustible
forms of tobacco and nicotine with the potential to lower an individual’s disease risk, resulting in a net public health benefit.
+ Learn more about THR strategy
at asmokelessworld.com/gb/en
Notes:
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus, are subject to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these products
without agency clearance.
1. Royal College of Physicians. E-cigarettes and harm reduction: An evidence review. RCP, 2024. Available at: www.rcp.ac.uk/policy-and-campaigns/policy-documents/e-cigarettes-and-
harm-reduction-an-evidence-review
75
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we're doing
Our commitment to THR through the development, scientific
assessment and commercialisation of our Smokeless products.
Summary of progress towards our ambitions
0 10 20 30 40 50
50% of revenue from Smokeless 2023 In 2024, revenue from our Smokeless
16.5%
products by 2035 products accounted for 17.5% of Group
2024 revenue.
17.5% Target
0 10 20 30 40 50
50m consumers of Smokeless 2023 We continue to make progress towards
25.5
products by 2030 our target of 50 million adult consumers
2024 of our Smokeless products by 2030,
29.1 Target adding another 3.6 million in 2024 to
a total of 29.1 million.
Making a Smokeless World a reality Backing the role of Our studies follow standardised regulatory-
In 2024, we set out our vision to Build a appropriate regulation endorsed methodologies where those
Smokeless World by introducing Omni™, Appropriate regulation, transparency, and exist, in line with requisite quality standards
a progress summary of our efforts to accountability are essential for Smokeless and practices (e.g. good laboratory practice
create A Better Tomorrow™. products to reach their full potential. and good clinical practice), and where
Omni™ openly addresses the big questions A balanced approach that factors in views possible, are conducted through third-
facing our organisation and provides an of all stakeholders – including those of BAT – party contract research organisations.
overview of the science supporting our and the latest body of evidence is key. Putting our expertise to work
Smokeless products. It also summarises Scientific rigour and due diligence With consumer insights and significant
the global THR evidence base compiled Our research in Smokeless products investments in science and R&D, we strive
over the last decade. not only focuses on the compliance of our to deliver innovations that anticipate and
We published our 'Commitment to products with all relevant regulations where satisfy consumer preferences.
Responsible Vaping Products', containing they are sold, it also contributes valuable We collaborate with external partners and
new and ambitious goals to address data to the scientific community. our corporate venturing arm, Btomorrow
legitimate stakeholder concerns about Ventures (BTV), to gain access to emerging
underage access, product safety and technologies and trends.
environmental impact.
Case study
Commitment to responsible
vaping products
We have published a series of ambitions, supported by evidence-
based solutions for our Vapour devices.
Our efforts include the prevention of underage access and
appeal through our responsible approach to flavours and
marketing, as well as the introduction of device features.
We have set clear targets for the increased implementation of
age-gating technologies and accidental use restriction features.
By the end of 2026, we aim to offer at least one vapour system
with age verification technology in markets that collectively make
up at least 80% of our global net turnover for Vapour products.
+ Learn more at bat.com/content/dam/batcom/global/news-and-
features/2024/october/bat-publishes-new-industry-leading-
ambitions-for-responsible-vaping/bats-commitment-to-
responsible-vaping-products.pdf
76
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Case study
Setting standards for retailers
We have Underage Access Prevention (UAP) programmes in place to help prevent our
products from being accessed by or sold, whether through BAT or any third-party
business entity with whom we have a customer relationship.
We engage with our third-party retail customers and distributors to adhere to the
Group’s responsible marketing standards.
For example, in the U.S., we support TruAge™, a digital ID check solution that enhances
current age-verification systems while protecting consumer privacy.1 The TruAge™
programme is available free of charge to help retailers comply with our contractual
age-verification requirements.
BTV has recently invested in a human Our RMP, RMC and supporting guidelines Our e-commerce and social media channels
technology company, that develops govern how we market our products, must also adhere to the requirements set out
advanced systems to replicate disease with a particular focus on designing in the RMP and RMC.
states and human responses to products strictly for adult smokers Our Digital Confidence Unit (DCU) is
therapeutics. Its technology is designed to and nicotine consumers. dedicated to monitoring social media
facilitate the acceleration of drug discovery Topics included UAP, mandatory health content 24/7 for compliance and
and reduce the need for animal studies. warnings and digital marketing content. reputational management purposes.
In 2024, we attended more than The RMP and RMC are underpinned by To provide oversight, the team reviews our
60 conferences, presenting on the science detailed guidelines and toolkits to facilitate social media posts to check for compliance
behind our Smokeless products. These their consistent application.2 with the RMP and RMC.
conferences ranged from large general
Processes are in place for reviewing The DCU engages with markets, as
conferences on toxicology to more
and approving marketing content to appropriate, to swiftly remediate any
specialist events on nicotine and tobacco
facilitate compliance with both our incidents identified.
science. We also ensure that the research
standards and local laws.
and content we share at conferences is
accessible to the public via our dedicated Reporting and resolving incidents
website, bat-science.com. of non-compliance
More than 270 peer-reviewed papers have Any allegations of non-compliance are What’s Next
been published in a range of global journals managed and escalated by the relevant
about our Smokeless products. market. Regional Heads of Legal report any
relevant findings to the Regional Audit
+ R sc e i a e d n t m if o ic re e a n b g o a u g t e o m u e r n r t e s in e t a h rc e h O a m n n d i TM Committee and remediation actions are Expanding our Smokeless products
implemented, as appropriate. capabilities.
at asmokelessworld.com/gb/en
In 2024, we identified two incidents of –Exploring innovative methods to
Our Responsible non-compliance with local marketing assess health risks and the harm
Marketing Principles regulations resulting in a fine or penalty reduction potential of from
Our International Marketing Principles and zero incidents of non-compliance with Smokeless products.
were updated and renamed Responsible local regulations resulting in a regulatory –Leveraging Omni™ to further
Marketing Principles (RMP).
warning.3
engage with stakeholders, including
Our approach to responsible marketing Marketing in a digital age scientists, public health authorities,
is governed by our RMP and Responsible We only use social media where the regulators, policy makers, and
Marketing Code (RMC). They apply to all audience is predominantly adult. investors.
BAT entities and marketing suppliers as We do not use open social media for our –Continuing to collaborate with
appropriate to local conditions. These combustibles brands. stakeholders on the public health
principles emphasise responsible opportunities of THR.
Where we use social media partnerships
marketing, which is accurate and adult-
to promote Smokeless products, we only
targeted and may be stricter than local
select third-parties whose audience is
law requires.
predominately adult.
Notes:
1. TruAge™, Available at: www.mytruage.org/
2. BAT, Responsible Marketing Principles and Code available here: www.bat.com/sustainability-and-esg/governance-and-
ethics/marketing-our-products-responsibly
‡ Definitions:
3. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations that result in warning or in fine or penalty are dealt with at End Market
level. To collect the 'Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in warning/fine or penalty' compliance data, Smokeless products: Refers to our Heated
the local teams are asked to report any instances or potential instances of breach, which may include allegations of Products, Modern Oral, Traditional Oral and Vapour
inappropriate marketing, or investigations regarding marketing non-compliance that they are aware of in their market. categories.
Incidents are only reported here when a fine or warning is issued.
77
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
IMPACT AREA
CLIMATE
GLOBAL CHALLENGE
Climate change is causing
unpredictable and
extreme weather events.
With unpredictable weather systems and rising sea levels
becoming a feature of our times, there is an urgent need
to address climate change.
Current pledges to meet the 1.5°C warming target, set as part
of the Paris Agreement in 2015, are significantly off course,
which could result in irreversible damage to our ecosystems.
78
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
LOCAL ACTIONS
Collaborating Decarbonising our operations
in Germany
to decarbonise
During 2024, BAT Germany’s manufacturing
site continued to progress with its
our value chain.
decarbonisation roadmap, which included:
–Using SURE-certified fuel1 from waste wood,
Supplier Sustainability Summits –Expanding on-site solar photovoltaics
(PV) system,
In 2024, our collaborative efforts expanded further to
–Implementing ongoing energy efficiency
a series of sustainability summits in China, South Africa,
measures,
and the U.S.
–Maintaining renewable electricity purchases; and
Each summit included panel discussions and interactive
workshops with external organisations, including –Reducing use of natural gas by installing
academia and industry specialists. Best practice an on-site biomass boiler.
was shared and common commitments agreed to. Specifically, the biomass boiler has reduced
These summits strengthened collaboration and CO e emissions by approximately 1,900 tonnes
2
capabilities to embed sustainable practices across per annum, a 41% reduction versus
the value chain. 2020 baseline.
Specifically, the Asia Summit included more than 52% of the site’s total energy consumption
180 suppliers. An awards ceremony was held to now comes from renewable sources, and will
recognise individual suppliers’ commitment to, and result in circa £0.7 million savings per annum
progress on, their sustainable practices. in fuel costs.
The Supplier Sustainability Advisory Council was
BAT Germany’s energy consumption (GWh)
established, and will be chaired by BAT. Meeting
quarterly, the council aims to facilitate the sharing 0 60
of common challenges and opportunities. 2020
49.8
During the Bangladesh summit in 2023, suppliers signed
pledges aligned to our Group sustainability 2024
35.7
commitments. They also received technical assistance
in the area of their energy management, which led to
BAT Germany’s scope 1 and 2 (Market-based)
the reduction of our Scope 3 emissions.
GHG emissions (tCOe)
2
0 12,000
>180 2020
11,396
2024
6,730
suppliers included in the Asia Summit
to embed sustainable practices across
BAT Germany’s direct energy source in 2024
their value chain.
versus 2020
0% 100%
2020
16% 84%
2024
52% 48%
Supplier
Renewable energy use
collaboration
Non-renewable energy use
is critical for
Note:
1. The certification system SURE (SUSTAINABLE RESOURCES Verification
achieving Scheme) is a voluntary certification system and was developed for the
production, supply and processing chains of solid and gaseous biofuels
according to the requirements of the EU Renewable Energy Directive
our Scope 3
recast (RED II).
reduction
Go online to learn
target.
more about our approach
to sustainability at
bat.com/sustainability-
and-esg
John O'Reilly
Group Head of Procurement Strategy
and Sustainability
79
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Our Climate ambition
OUR AMBITION
Transitioning towards
a low carbon economy.
The transformation of our own operations and those
of our suppliers is a critical part of working towards
achieving our science-based emissions reduction
targets, in line with Paris Climate Agreement goals.
Across products and operations, we rely on natural
resources such as timber, soil and water.
That means we are affected by, and therefore dedicate
efforts to manage our impacts on climate change.
Investing
in sustainable
technologies
and fostering
partnerships are
essential to deliver
a low-carbon
economy.
Melissa Darby
Head of Environmental Policy
80
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
How we’ll get there
Our Group's climate change initiatives are guided
Targets:
by our Low Carbon Transition Plan and Environment
50% absolute
Policy, supported by our Climate Change and reduction in Scope 1
and 2 GHG emissions
Energy Standard.
by 2030 (versus 2020
baseline)1
Our near-term 2030 Science-Based Targets (SBTs) are in line with a 1.5°C
warming pathway and supported by a range of commitments across energy, – in line with a 1.5°C
warming pathway
waste, water and biodiversity.
In 2024, we submitted our Net Zero GHG emissions targets to the Science Based 30.3% absolute
Targets Initiative (SBTi). reduction in Scope 3
Forest, Land and
Reducing GHG emissions Reducing GHG emissions Agriculture (FLAG)
GHG emissions by
in our operations (Scope 1 and 2) in our value chain (Scope 3)
2030 (versus 2020
Site-specific decarbonisation Implementing carbon-smart baseline)1
roadmaps and investment in farming and curing efficiency – submitted to SBTi for
energy-efficiency projects validation as 1.5°C-aligned
Designing for end-of-life
in September 2024
Renewable energy sourcing
Increasing use of less carbon
through power purchase 42% absolute
intensive materials
agreements and on-site reduction in Scope 3
renewable energy generation Working with direct and Industrial (non-FLAG)
indirect suppliers to reduce GHG emissions by
Roll-out of electric and hybrid
their emissions 2030 (versus 2020
vehicles in our fleet
baseline)1
– submitted to SBTi for
validation as 1.5°C-aligned
in September 2024
7 50%
reduction
50% renewable
in Scope 1&2
GHG emissions1 energy use by 2030
6
+ Find out more:
Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
5 30.3% for a full description of key terms
and definitions at bat.com/reporting
reduction in
Scope 3 FLAG
GHG emissions1
4
42%
3
reduction in
Scope 3 Industrial
(Non-FLAG)
GHG emissions1
2
50%
renewable
energy in
direct energy
use
Note:
1. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030 science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions
target includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG
emissions target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating Scope 3 data
from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting.
81
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we’re doing
Working towards Net Zero across Scope 1
our value chain by 2050. Scope 2
Scope 3
FLAG emissions
2023 emissions footprint* 2023 Scope 3 breakdown Industrial (Non-FLAG) emissions
(000’s tonnes CO e) (000’s tonnes CO e)
2 2
(000’s tonnes COe)
2
a Category 1: Purchased Goods 1,768
b Category 1: Purchased Services 1,117
Scope 1 299 d Category 1: Purchased Tobacco Leaf 678
Scope 2 95 g h i jkl j Category 2: Capital Goods 81
Scope 3 481 f mn g Category 3: Fuel and Energy Related
FLAG a Emissions 176
e
e Category 4: Upstream
Transportation and Distribution 308
m Category 5: Waste Generated in
d
Operations 3
i Category 6: Business Travel 87
Scope 3 4,997
k Category 7: Employee Commuting 62
Non-FLAG
c l Category 9: Downstream transportation
b and Distribution 16
f Category 11: Use of Sold Products 225
h Category 12: End-of-Life Treatment
of Sold Products 142
Note: n Category 14: Franchises 1
* These are 2023 numbers. Due to the complexity of consolidating Scope 3 data from our suppliers and value chain,
we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. c Category 15: Investments 815
000’s tonnes COe 70 140 210 280 350 420 490
2
Scope 1 2020 We continue to reduce our Scope 1
342
baseline emissions through:
2022 –Targeted energy efficiency investments
329 across our operations,
–Optimisation of our vehicle fleet routes;
2023
299 and
–Replacing carbon intensive assets with
2024
237 lower carbon alternatives.
Scope 2 2020 We continue to reduce Scope 2
199
(market- baseline emissions by:
based) 2022 –Lowering our energy consumption,
113
–Procuring renewable energy; and
2023 –Increasing on-site renewable energy
95
generation.
2024
74
000’s tonnes COe 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000
2
We continue to reduce our Scope 3
Scope 3 2020 emissions and in 2024, we submitted two
baseline 5,306 576 new near-term Scope 3 targets to the
Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi)
2021 5,471 726 for validation:
–Forest, Land and Agricultural (FLAG)
2022 target covering emissions related to the
5,534 621
land sector.
2023 –Industrial (non-FLAG) target covering
4,997 481
all other relevant emissions. Prior year
numbers have been restated accordingly.
82
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Delivering on Decarbonisation Renewable Energy Reducing Fleet Emissions
In 2024, the Group discontinued its We have a target across our direct The Green Mobility Standard outlines
carbon-neutral operations target, instead operations to use 50% renewable energy our strategy for reducing fleet-related
focusing investments in absolute emission by 2030.1 emissions. It sets out initiatives such as
reductions, and towards achieving Net Zero. In 2024, 45.1% of our direct energy usage optimising travel routes to enhance fuel
We invested a further £19 million in came from renewable sources such as efficiency and switching to lower-
emission and energy reduction initiatives renewable electricity (both purchased and emissions vehicles.
across 63% of our operations sites. generated on-site), sustainable biomass In 2024, our vehicle fleet accounted for
Once completed, we expect these and biogas. This represents an increase roughly 22% of our Scope 1 and 2
initiatives to reduce absolute Scope 1 and of 7 percentage points from 2023. 36 of emissions.2 Our combined absolute Scope 1
Scope 2 emissions by approximately 27,000 our operations sites are now purchasing and 2 fleet emissions reduced year-on-year
tonnes of COe per annum. 100% renewable electricity. by 9.4% and a further 26% versus our 2020
After success 2 fully installing biomass boilers On-site solar panels were installed in baseline.
in South Korea and Germany in 2023, Bangladesh, Papua New Guinea, Serbia, Fiji
similar installations have been completed and Solomon Islands, and are now in place 45.1%
in 2024 at our facility in Croatia. We expect at 30 operations sites (51% out of all
this installation to reduce COe emissions operations sites).
2
by 2,160 tonnes per annum. BAT Türkiye switched to 100% renewable
renewable energy use
We continue to deploy our 10 Golden Rules electricity, with its large-scale 6.5 MWp across our own operations in 2024
Programme, which aims to standardise off-site solar power plant. The plant
energy efficiency practices across all provides energy for our local operations,
our sites. and contributes to the national grid.
In 2024, 32% of our manufacturing sites In addition, BAT Poland entered into a
implemented the programme, up from 20% multi-year Power Purchase Agreement
in 2023. (PPA) for solar energy. This will supply over
12GWh of renewable electricity annually,
For example, the factory in Malang,
equivalent to approximately 30% of the
Indonesia fully adopted the Programme,
factory’s electricity consumption in
which resulted in a 76% reduction in Scope
the country.
1 and 2 emissions against its 2020 baseline.
Case study
Trialling Sustainable Fuel
with Low-Carbon Innovations
One way of achieving emissions reductions in the transport
sector is to use sustainable fuels. These are synthetic or bio-
based alternatives to fossil fuels that are made from renewable
sources, for example waste cooking oils. Sustainable Aviation
Fuel (SAF) can reduce COe emissions by up to 80% compared
2
to conventional jet fuel.3
In 2024, we launched our first-ever trial using SAF with Yusen
Logistics, one of our key freight forwarding companies, followed
by a trial with Kuehne+Nagel (KN). Throughout the year, we also
conducted trials on Marine Biofuel with our key Marine Carriers
including CMA CGM, Orient Overseas Container Line (OOCL)
and Ocean Network Express (ONE). Our first road trial using
hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO) began in 2024 with H.Essers
and has been successful thus far.
Challenges remain around these innovative alternatives,
including the accounting of emissions reductions, limited
feedstock availability and high cost of production. However,
we intend to continue to explore sustainable fuel use cases
Sustainable fuel trial with Marine Carrier, OOCL. and conduct further assessments in 2025.
Notes:
1. Renewable energy includes: Energy generated from renewable fuels at our sites (e.g. wood fuel, biomass fuels) and in fleet vehicles, owned or leased (e.g. biodiesel); Purchased renewable
electricity, hot water and steam; and Renewable energy generated on site using non-fuel technology (e.g. with photovoltaic installations or solar water heaters).
2. In 2023, our vehicle fleet accounted for roughly 21% of our Scope and Scope 2 metrics.
3. www.iata.org/en/programs/sustainability/sustainable-aviation-fuels/
83
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we’re doing
Continued
Collaborating with Tobacco Farmers
In 2021, the Group set a Scope 3 target to
reduce emissions by 50% by 2030, aligning
with the Paris Agreement and SBTi guidelines.
The SBTi's recent methodology change
now requires separate reporting for
Scope 3 FLAG and non-FLAG emissions,
prompting the Group to recalibrate its
targets while maintaining its 1.5°C
commitment.
As a result, in 2024, we submitted FLAG
emission targets to the SBTi for validation.
FLAG targets cover emissions that are
related to the land sector and complement
our industrial (Non-FLAG) emissions.
+ Find out more about our FLAG emissions
in our TCFD Report
Purchased tobacco accounted for around
12% of our total Scope 3 GHG emissions,
contributing 678 thousand tonnes of COe
2
in 2023.
In our tobacco supply chain, the majority of
FLAG emissions are attributed to fertiliser
use, while non-FLAG emissions primarily
arise from fuels used in the tobacco curing
process. We aim to increase the use of less
carbon intensive fuels in the tobacco curing
process by incorporating renewable
alternatives such as biomass.
To date, more than 87% of our leaf volume
is cured with renewable fuels and methods.
The Group's own Leaf Operations and its
directly contracted farmers have
eliminated the use of coal for tobacco
curing. The use of coal for tobacco curing
across our tobacco supply chain has also
reduced from 3.3% in 2023 to 2.3% in 2024,
representing supplier-purchased tobacco
volumes.
We seek to help farmers reduce
emissions by implementing regenerative
agriculture practices and ‘carbon-smart’
farming practices.
Carbon-smart farming is focused on both
reducing emissions from tobacco farming
and harnessing agriculture’s potential to
remove carbon from the atmosphere.
This can be accomplished through
conservation practices such as minimum
tillage that keep the soil covered to minimise
disturbance and reduce the possibility of
stored carbon from being released. These
practices are being implemented
throughout the Group’s own Leaf
Operations in Brazil, Bangladesh, Mexico,
and Pakistan, which account for our highest
volumes of directly contracted tobacco.
87%
of our Leaf volume is cured with
renewable fuels and methods
84
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Case study
Decarbonising our Operations in Vietnam
BAT Vietnam has focused on reducing Energy consumption is managed through 2024 performance included a 61%
its carbon footprint in three areas: process automation and machine capacity reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions
optimisation, including reconfiguring and versus a 2020 baseline, sourcing 85%
Improving energy efficiency,
relocating equipment at its sites. This has renewable energy, with 100%
Increasing use of renewable energy; and been complemented by switching to of electricity used for operational sites
renewables, including electric, biomass, from renewable sources.
Investing in innovative technologies. and solar energy sources, to power a
growing number of our activities such as
boilers, factory lighting, and car fleet.
Working with Direct and Indirect Response Rate for CDP Our target for 20% of our purchased goods
Suppliers to Tackle Scope 3 Emissions Supply Chain programme and services suppliers by spend to have set
Our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) SBTs by 2025, has been achieved one year
applies to all our suppliers and sets out BAT 94% in advance.
the actions that we expect them to take By year-end 2024, 23.5% of suppliers had
regarding climate change and other SBTs in place, and an additional 17.3% have
CDP Global
environmental topics. 40% committed to setting them.
Average
We evaluate climate-related criteria during We will continue to monitor and
procurement sourcing events, and as part report progress.
We invited 726 suppliers representing
of our Supplier Climate Enablement
74.5% of our purchased goods and services
programme, assessing ongoing
emissions, to respond to the CDP Supply
performance against climate KPIs. Chain programme.1
Performance updates are provided to the We recorded a 94% response rate,2 which
Operations Sustainability Forum which has
is above the global average CDP response
oversight of our supplier emission
rate of 40%.
performance.
Data collected through the programme
Emissions reduction is embedded
enables us to better understand our
throughout each phase of our supplier life What’s Next
suppliers’ progress on emissions reductions
cycle management and covers around
and prioritise our own actions, informing
26,000 direct and indirect suppliers.
our Supplier Climate Enablement
Their emissions account for around 50% programme. In 2025, we intend to update our
of our Scope 3 inventory, approximately In 2024, our Supplier Climate Enablement Low Carbon Transition Plan:
2,900,000 tonnes of COe in 2023.
2 Programme further extended its scope –Detailing mitigation targets,
Interactions with our suppliers include from 60 of our top CO 2 e emitting suppliers actionable steps, and the approach
sourcing events, the CDP Supply Chain in 2023 to 150. to embedding our climate ambition
programme, and direct one-on-one The Programme’s expansion was driven by into governance.
engagements via our supplier
the training of procurement colleagues on –Continuing to reduce our Scope 1
enablement programme.
incorporating climate discussions into and 2 emissions by further
We also support suppliers to enhance their regular supplier engagement. increasing renewable electricity
standards by sharing data, and encourage procurement where feasible.
them to set Science-Based Targets (SBTs).
–Improving our Scope 3 data through
supplier engagement and CDP
information.
Notes:
1. This is a 21% increase compared to 2023.
2. Excluding Russia and Belarus. More details about changes to the Group related to Russia and Belarus are available on page 339
of this document.
85
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
IMPACT AREA
NATURE
GLOBAL CHALLENGE
Habitat destruction
accelerates the
extinction of species.
Biodiversity is critical for thriving ecosystems.
However, climate change and habitat destruction are
accelerating biodiversity loss, threatening ecosystems’
stability and resilience.
Protecting biodiversity is essential to maintaining the
health of our planet and ensuring the survival of species.
86
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
LOCAL ACTIONS
Supporting local
communities
and nature
Reforestation and water
security in Bangladesh
On World Environment Day, in 2024, BAT
Bangladesh distributed over 5 million saplings
nationwide as part of its “Bonayan” initiative.
Now, in its 44th year, “Bonayan” is a reforestation
and afforestation initiative, aimed at addressing
deforestation, and enhancing biodiversity by
supporting the restoration of Bangladesh’s natural
heritage and promoting sustainable development We must strive to
practices.
preserve natural resources
The initiative also provides local communities with
additional income sources and resources, fostering
for future generations.
economic development.
“Probaho”, established in 2009, is a private sector
Harriet Rwanda
initiative addressing critical water issues, including
Manager, Leaf Sustainability
contamination and scarcity. The initiative provides
more than 620,000 litres of water daily to
over 310,000 people across 25 districts in Bangladesh.
Restoring landscapes in Kenya
With an average depth of 50 metres, the water
is extracted, pumped, and filtered from over ‘Kijani’ (meaning leaf) is BAT Kenya’s
120 water units. afforestation programme.
This work contributes to the conservation
+5m of indigenous trees and the restoration of
degraded landscapes.
For example, in 2024, in collaboration with
fuelwood, timber, fruits and local communities and national stakeholders,
medicinal plant seedlings were approximately 300,000 saplings were
distributed across Bangladesh via distributed in the Mount Elgon National Park
our Bonayan programme in 2024 and 110,000 saplings in other conservation
sites across Kenya.
300,000
The Bonayan
programme
saplings distributed in the Mount Elgon
has enabled National Park
me to generate
additional
income that
has enriched
Go online to learn
more about our approach
my livelihood.
to sustainability
bat.com/sustainability-
and-esg
Mr. Abdul Mannan
Beneficiary of the Bonayan programme
87
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Our Nature ambition
OUR AMBITION
Contributing to a
Nature Positive1 future.
We endeavour to manage our impacts on nature, and
to improve our resilience to environmental degradation.
We aim to mitigate nature loss and have made a series
of commitments to protect, restore and replenish nature.
Our business operations, including conventional
agricultural practices, rely on the use of natural resources,
such as timber, soil and water.
Activities such as raw material sourcing, tobacco farming,
and water withdrawals for agricultural activities and
manufacturing can negatively impact the environment.
Note:
1. According to The Nature Positive Initiative, 'Nature Positive' is a goal which refers
to measurable outcomes that contribute to halting and reversing nature loss with
significant benefits to society (www.naturepositive.org/about/the-initiative).
As we rely on natural
resources such as
timber, land and water,
we endeavour to work
towards our nature
positive goals.
Jonathan Upward
Group Head Operations Sustainability
88
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
How we’ll get there
Our Group Environment Policy and Biodiversity 1
Targets for 2025:
Statement outline our approach for mitigating
Deforestation and
our environmental impacts. Conversion Free
tobacco supply chain
We manage the impacts of our activities and sites by implementing
Deforestation Free
internal standards. These include our Soil and Groundwater Protection
pulp and paper
Standard, which provides guidance for preventing and managing
supply chain
contamination issues.
Our Water Security Standard provides water conservation guidance for Forest Positive in our
operational sites and sets out actions for sites located in water-stressed tobacco supply chain
regions. In our tobacco supply chain, our Biodiversity Operational Standard
for Tobacco Farming (BOS) provides guidance for our Leaf supply chain. 35% reduction in
Guidance includes forest and biodiversity management, natural ecosystems water withdrawn
conversion, wood traceability, and integrated pest management, which (versus 2017
supports the growth of healthy crops while minimising disruption to baseline) and 30%
agricultural ecosystems. of water recycled
To achieve our nature commitments, we have adopted the mitigation
hierarchy, in line with the Science Based Targets Network’s (SBTN) AR3T 100% operation sites
framework2. Implementing this approach supports targets of the Alliance for Water
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF3). Stewardship certified
+ Read more about our policies and
procedures on pages 116 to 117 + Find out more:
Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
for a full description of key terms
and definitions at bat.com/reporting
Our approach in line with the SBTN's AR3T framework
Following the mitigation hierarchy 1.AVOID
–Deforestation and conversion
in our tobacco supply chain
–Deforestation in our pulp and
paper supply chain
–The use of highly hazardous
pesticides (HHPs)
2. REDUCE
–Use of agrochemicals where
possible
–Water use across our direct
operations and tobacco supply
chain
–Water risks in our tobacco
supply chain through active
stewardship
3. RESTORE AND REGENERATE
–Our ambition is to implement
regenerative agriculture
practices, and restore nature
through our Forest Positive
target
4. TRANSFORM
–Embed nature policies, target
plans and activities across our
operations and supply chain
Notes:
1. Our ambitions cover all tobacco we purchase for our products (‘tobacco supply chain’); which is used in our combustibles, Traditional Oral and Heated Products. Our metrics, however, derive data
from our annual Thrive assessment, which includes our directly contracted farmers and those of our third-party suppliers, which represented over 93% of the tobacco we purchased by volume in
2024 (‘Thrive Supply Chain’).
2. sciencebasedtargetsnetwork.org/companies/take-action/act.
3. www.cbd.int/doc/decisions/cop-15/cop-15-dec-04-en.pdf.
89
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we're doing
In line with the SBTN’s mitigation hierarchy, addressing
our impact across five different categories: avoid, reduce,
regenerate, restore and transform.
Monitoring and managing Deforestation and Conversion Free Crop rotation is a recognised best practice
compliance in our tobacco tobacco supply chain by 2025 approach to improving soil fertility and
supply chain conservation.
In accordance with our Biodiversity % of wood used in Thrive Supply Responsible sourcing in our pulp
Operational Standard for Tobacco Farming Chain1 with deforestation and and paper supply chain
(BOS), our field technicians monitor directly conversion free (DCF) status When sourcing materials, we aim to only
contracted farmers to confirm work with suppliers across our pulp and
100
that deforestation or conversion activities paper supply chain who can demonstrate
are not present. 95.5% 96.5% 98.5% low risk of deforestation.
Field technicians also monitor compliance Our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC)
by carrying out regular and unannounced 90 applies to all our suppliers who are
farm visits. Where deforestation or expected to supply materials that are
conversion incidents are identified, we have Deforestation Free (DF).
a process in place for establishing 60 Our approach is based on the
remediation plans which involve restoring
internationally recognised Accountability
the impacted area where possible.
Framework Initiative (AFi).
We ask our third-party suppliers to take
30 In 2024, we updated our approach to
equivalent steps.
determine DF status for our pulp and paper
In 2024, we monitored 100% of directly supply chain, which consists of:
contracted farmers (approximately 90,500)
0 –Gathering information on suppliers,
for deforestation and natural ecosystem
management systems, their
conversion. We also trained our farmers
2022 2023 2024 performance, mill locations and volumes,
and field technicians on best practices for
and deforestation compliance;
resource preservation, such as the use of
sustainable wood for tobacco curing, forest These plans involve protecting and –Assessing suppliers against internal criteria
conservation biodiversity, integrated pest restoring natural forests and riverbank and international good practice; and
management and soil and water ecosystems, as well as creating and –Identifying improvement actions to
management. protecting habitats for pollinators and inform suppliers engagement scope
In 2024, 648,669 attendees were reported specific species. and action plans.
to have received training.2 In 2024, an additional BRA was conducted In 2024, we assessed all in-scope pulp and
Partnerships to tackle deforestation using the Biodiversity Risk Screening paper materials and 86% were established
(BRiSK) toolkit, which incorporates as sourced with low risk of deforestation
and protect biodiversity
15 nature indicators. according to the following criteria:
We support our directly contracted
farmers through training and provide them Farms identified as 'priority' within the –7% of volume was classified as DF
with tree saplings as part of their geospatial assessment will be locally through chain of custody schemes
sustainable fuel sources for tobacco curing, assessed during 2025, and where required, providing full assurance.
further BMPs will be implemented.
alongside biomass, sun and air curing. This –28% of volume sourced from suppliers with
initiative aims to prevent the harvesting of Soil management approach a CDP Forest disclosure rating of 'A/A-' and
wood in a way that leads to deforestation GLAD develops integrated pest 100% of volume was disclosed as DF.
of natural ecosystems. management strategies, focusing on
–51% of volume was traceable to a low-risk
In 2024, 44% of our directly contracted disease-resistant tobacco and biological sourcing area.
farmers used alternative biomass fuels for controls to reduce agrochemical use.
–0% of volume was traceable
tobacco curing and third-party suppliers Only agrochemicals that are compliant
to production units monitored as DF.
are asked to follow the same practices. with local regulations and with the lowest
In 2023, we deployed Biodiversity possible toxicity according to WHO –14% of volume could not be assessed or
Management Plans (BMPs) to mitigate classification are used. did not have low risk of deforestation.
risks on farms identified as 'priority' from In 2024, 87% of tobacco hectares in our We continue to work with suppliers to
our Biodiversity Risk Assessment (BRA). Thrive Supply Chain1 used best practice soil achieve our target of a Deforestation Free
In 2024, our Field Technicians followed up and water management practices and 94% pulp and paper supply chain by 2025.
on 96% of the open BMPs to monitor their of Thrive farmers grew alternative crops
implementation. such as rice, corn, vegetables, wheat, and
soy alongside tobacco.
Notes:
1. Our ambitions cover all tobacco we purchase for our products (‘tobacco supply chain’); which is used in our combustibles, Traditional Oral and Heated Products. Our metrics, however,
derive data from our annual Thrive assessment, which includes our directly contracted farmers and those of our third-party suppliers, which represented over 93% of the tobacco we
purchased by volume in 2024 (‘Thrive Supply Chain’).
2. 458,017 attendees were reported to have received this training in 2023.
90
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Managing biodiversity in our direct Assessing the water risks Assessing our water risks
operations in our direct operations in our tobacco supply chain
We aim to have a Biodiversity Operating In 2024, 76% of total water consumption For our tobacco supply chain, our SCoC
Guide for our manufacturing sites in 2025. was accounted for in our operations sites, is complemented by our Leaf Supplier
The Guide will specify site-specific actions and 24% in our offices, retail, R&D and Manual (LSM), which includes guidelines
and contain criteria to determine which other sites. for water protection planning and water
sites require a Biodiversity Action Plan. We use the WRI Aqueduct Water Atlas to extraction for irrigation.
For example, our Augustów site in Poland assess our operational exposure to water Through the Atlas, we monitor our tobacco
was identified as a high priority in our 2023 risks, incorporating additional factors such sourcing locations that are in water-
Biodiversity Risk Assessment. Following an as flood risk, drought risk and water stressed areas.
evaluation of biodiversity risks, site-specific depletion. In 2024, 20 of our tobacco sourcing
biodiversity recommendations and action The Atlas identified that 23 of our locations – including Bangladesh,
plans were developed. operations sites are in water stressed U.S., India and Türkiye – were in water-
We also developed a biodiversity training areas,1 accounting for 39% of our water stressed areas. An estimated 21.9% of the
programme for managers in our withdrawn in 2024. These assessments tobacco we purchased came from water
Operations function. guide our prioritisation of capital stressed areas.
expenditure and resources to improve In these areas, we support our directly
Taskforce on Nature-Related
water management and recycling rates. contracted farmers to grow the
Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
In 2024, we also identified and prioritised appropriate tobacco variety, introduce
As part of this Combined Annual and
our top 10 water basins, through a irrigation technology or optimise and
Sustainability Report, we have included
prioritisation methodology that includes reduce crop water usage. This is explained
our TNFD disclosure with reference to
both stress and marine risk factors. further on page 93.
following disclosure pillars:
Our priority basins will be used for action Our third-party suppliers are also
–Governance
planning, resource allocation and capital encouraged to support their contracted
–Strategy expenditure prioritisation in the future. farmers with similar methods.
–Risk and Impact management; and More details including the methodology
can be found in our TNFD disclosure.
–Metrics and Targets.
For example, the WaterHubSM in the U.S.
+ Read more about our TNFD Report (that will be operational in 2025), is located
on pages 137 to 152
on a water-stressed site.
The WaterHubSM is a major water recycling
facility with a designed capacity of
200,000m3.
+ For more performance metrics and
operational data, refer to our
Sustainability Performance Data
Book at bat.com/reporting
Case study
Regenerative Practices
Our Global Leaf Agronomy Development (GLAD) Centre works with our Leaf
suppliers to promote agricultural practices such as the High Wide Ridge.
This method, involving high, wide trapezoidal ridges, reduces soil erosion,
increases water retention, and prevents waterlogging. It can increase yields by up
to 20%, improve crop quality, and reduce soil-borne diseases.
Nearly 90% of our directly contracted farmers in Brazil use this technique, which
is recognised as a conservation practice by Embrapa, the Brazilian Agricultural
Research Corporation.
In 2024, we developed a regenerative agriculture framework which includes a
methodology for assessing and prioritising local risks and the monitoring of progress
on the regeneration of the farmland ecosystem.
Agri-tech in practice
We plan to pilot this framework with key Leaf suppliers in 2025. at our GLAD centre.
Note:
1. In 2023, the Atlas identified 24 of our operations sites were in water stressed areas.
91
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we’re doing
Continued
Where we source our water from
2.73
3
mn m
Total water withdrawn
From water utility supplies 64%
From fresh surface water sources 2%
From groundwater sources 34%
Summary of progress towards our targets
0 10 20 30 40 50
35% reduction in water withdrawn 2023 We achieved our 2025 target for reduction
39.2%
by 2025 (versus 2017 baseline) in water withdrawn two years ahead of
% reduction of water withdrawn schedule.
vs 2017 baseline 2024 Target 47.4%
We continue to work on maintaining this
target, achieving a 47.4% reduction in 2024
(against our 2017 baseline).
0 10 20 30 40
30% water recycling rate by 2025 2023 We invest in water treatment
24.4%
% of total water recycled technologies to increase water recycling.
2024 In 2024, our water recycling rate increased
27.5% Target
year-on-year by 3.1 percentage points to
27.5%.
0 50 100
100% of operations sites to be 2023 In 2024, an additional eight sites in our
69%
Alliance for Water Stewardship direct operations were successfully AWS
(AWS) certified by 2025 certified, bringing the total number of
% of operations sites that are 2024 91% Target certified sites to 51 or 91% of our
AWS certified operations sites.
Case study
Pollinator Garden Spanning 249 hectares, the Reynolds
Operations Center (ROC) is the
to Support Monarch
Group’s largest manufacturing facility.
Butterflies in the U.S. Employee volunteers planted Seeing colleagues
54 species and 519 native seedlings,
creating a migratory habitat unite to create this
for pollinators such as bees
and butterflies.
pollinator garden
This is important due to the decline in
the local Monarch Butterfly population, to help support our
primarily caused by habitat loss.
The area is now a certified Monarch local ecosystem
Waystation.
In addition, the ROC plans to convert was truly inspiring.
its fields to meadows and landscaping
with native plants, and to conduct
ongoing biodiversity monitoring Tony Woods
to measure the increase in flora Maintenance Analyst,
and fauna. Reynolds American Companies
92
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Case study
Technology to monitor deforestation
and biodiversity
In 2024, BAT Brazil introduced satellite monitoring to track forest cover changes.
Alongside regular monitoring conducted by Field Technicians, the system enhances
our monitoring of suspected conversion or deforestation. Following the identification
of potential deforestation, our field technicians conduct assessments to visually verify
whether deforestation has occurred, and where possible, the cause of the incident. If
confirmed, a remediation plan is implemented. Further details are available on page 89.
In Kenya, we initiated a pilot with a global network of ecological specialists to monitor
restoration efforts around Mount Elgon and Cherangany Hills. The objective is to
collect primary data through drones, audio sensors and artificial intelligence.
The plan is to monitor these areas to evaluate the effectiveness of nature restoration.
Colour coded map We continue to scout for state-of-the-art technologies to support our nature initiatives.
by habitat-type.
Our water stewardship programmes Tobacco supply chain In Mexico we observed a 10% reduction
We have developed a standardised in water use compared to drip irrigation
Direct Operations
methodology and protocol to measure by installing real-time temperature, water
Our water withdrawal and discharge
water use on tobacco farms. The protocol and electric conductivity sensors.
guidelines and our Water Roadmap provide
aims to enhance the accuracy of water
guidance for managing water use at our
reporting and support a more accurate
manufacturing sites and help assess water
performance assessment of drip irrigation
management systems in line with the
and other water-saving initiatives.
Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)
certification process. Approximately 70% of tobacco hectares
in our Thrive Supply Chain are grown
In 2024, an additional eight sites in our
using rainfall. Where rainfall is insufficient,
direct operations were successfully AWS
farmers may use irrigation.
certified, bringing the total number of certified
sites to 51 or 91% of our operations sites. In 2024, around 30.7% of the tobacco What’s Next
hectares in our Thrive Supply Chain used
Additionally, 78% of our operations sites
some form of irrigation systems.
implemented both water efficiency and
recycling activities, investing £3.9 million
30.7% Creating a regenerative agriculture
in capital expenditure.
framework.
We also achieved 27.5% of total water
–Developing methodologies to assess
recycled in 2024, driven by our top
local risks.
performing sites in the U.S., Brazil, South
of the tobacco hectares in our
Korea and Bangladesh. –Piloting initiatives with key suppliers
Thrive Supply Chain benefited from in 2025.
Our Brazil site became the first Group site
irrigation systems in 2024
to achieve the AWS Standard certification –Tracking progress through action
with platinum status. It is the highest of plans.
three levels of certification available, At our GLAD centre in Brazil, research
indicating conformity with AWS’s additional is conducted to reduce water usage in
Advanced Indicators. high-dependency regions and support
engagement with local communities.
Drip irrigation was introduced in eight
countries, saving up to 50% more
water in comparison to conventional
irrigation practices.
In 2024, land area using drip irrigation Definitions:
increased by 50% in Vietnam and 29% Conversion: Change of a natural ecosystem
in Chile. to another land use or profound change in a natural
ecosystem’s species composition, structure, or
We have also adopted alternate furrow function.
irrigation in Pakistan and Bangladesh. Deforestation: Loss of natural forest as a result of
i) conversion to agriculture or other non-forest land
This practice saves up to an estimated
use; ii) conversion to a tree plantation; or iii) severe
10% more water, compared to traditional and sustained degradation.
furrow irrigation without negatively Forest Positive: To be considered 'Forest Positive',
affecting the yield. among other things, a forest should be planted for
conservation purposes. Further, the area must be
monitored at least one year after the planting date,
to verify the survival rate quantification of the area
planted and the number of trees that have become
viable.
93
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
IMPACT AREA
CIRCULARITY
GLOBAL CHALLENGE
The unsustainable use
of virgin raw materials
harms the environment.
Transforming the linear economy requires changing
how businesses design, manufacture, use, and dispose
of products.
Challenges include continuous demand for virgin raw
materials, unsustainable consumption patterns, and
endless waste. Circularity aims to address these issues
by minimising waste and optimising resources.
94
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
LOCAL ACTIONS
Local partnerships to
reduce post-consumer
waste and recover
materials.
Battery recycling in Kazakhstan
Battery recycling at scale faces challenges including
the lack of infrastructure, high costs, and the technical
complexities of recycling.
In 2024, BAT Kazakhstan entered into a collaboration
agreement with First Recycling to open the country’s
first lithium-ion battery recycling facility.
The facility recovers valuable materials from the
batteries in our glo devices, including lithium, aluminium,
Our partnership with
and copper.
The recovered materials are subsequently sold by First Keep America Beautiful
Recycling for onward use in battery production.
and TerraCycle is a
To date more than 95,000 batteries from our glo devices
have been recycled.
testament to the power
of collaboration.
95,000
Kara Calderon
Senior Director of Sustainability & Community
Engagement, Reynolds American Companies
batteries from our glo devices
have been recycled
Repurposing cigarette butts
Over the past 15 years, Reynolds American
Companies have collaborated with
TerraCycle and Keep America Beautiful
to reduce cigarette butt litter.
TerraCycle, develops recycling solutions
We aim to
for waste streams that are not usually
leverage local considered recyclable.
Cigarette butts collected through clean-ups
partnerships to are sent to TerraCycle, where they are
repurposed into furniture items, including
decarbonise our
garbage bins and public place seating.
downstream Likewise, the partnership with Keep
America Beautiful funds the Cigarette
supply chain. Litter Prevention Programme, educating
adult consumers, distributing portable
ashtrays, and organising clean-up
community activities.
Ablay Turganbaev
Environment, Health, and Safety Manager, BAT Kazakhstan
Go online to learn
more about our approach
to sustainability
bat.com/sustainability-
and-esg
95
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Our Circularity ambition
OUR AMBITION
Reducing the use of
virgin raw materials.
We seek to reduce our material footprint across our value
chain and to understand and minimise the environmental
impact of virgin raw material use.
In the ‘make’ phase, we aim to use more sustainable
materials and increase resource efficiency.
In the ‘use’ phase, we encourage responsible consumption
and disposal.
In the ‘dispose’ phase, we collaborate with waste
management organisations to enhance material recovery.
Circular economy is more than
just limiting our environmental
impact. It’s a growth opportunity
for our business
– rethinking
our partnerships,
using innovation
to make our
supply chain
more resilient.
Neelam Melwani
Head of Circularity
96
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
How we’ll get there
Addressing circularity across product life cycles.
Targets:
As we continue to strive towards reducing our use of virgin raw materials, we have 100% of our
taken steps to deepen our understanding of the full extent of our material footprint. packaging to be
reusable, recyclable
Sustainable design
or compostable
We aim to embed circularity into the early stages of product and packaging design.
where facilities
In 2024, we introduced and began testing an initial set of ecodesign principles,
exist by 2025
which will provide insights to support the reduction of our environmental impacts
across the product life cycle – spanning the 'make,' 'use,' and 'dispose' phases.
90% recycling rate
These principles include renewable and recycled materials, efficient of waste generated
resource use, extending product life, and end-of-life product management. across our
In 2025, we will work to quantitatively assess the environmental impacts operations by 2025
of our Smokeless products as part of the ‘design’ phase.
By leveraging these insights, we aim to establish quantifiable design targets, including: 25% reduction
in waste generated
Using less CO e intensive materials
2 across our operations
Using more recycled materials by 2025 (versus
Using more renewable materials 2017 baseline)
Enhancing durability and product lifespan Less than 1%
Greater modularity, disassembly and recyclability of our operational
waste going
We also aim to understand the full extent of our virgin raw material use and its to landfill by 2025
environmental impact. In doing so, we continue to improve our data quality to
inform decisions across the 'make', 'use', and 'dispose' stages of our supply chain.
+ Find out more:
In 2024, we launched the Green Design Tool to support our product designers Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
for a full description of key terms
and material scientists understand the environmental impact of current and and definitions at bat.com/reporting
future materials.
+ Read more about our policies and
procedures on pages 116 to 117
Rethinking design
How we think about using materials in a smarter and more efficient way
Reduce Design for:
–use of less carbon intensive
and virgin raw materials
–use of more secondary
and alternative materials
Rethink
Design for:
consumer upgradability
and repairability
Reuse
Design for:
extended lifespan
Recover
Design for:
disassembly and material
recovery
Recycle
Design for:
use of more widely technically
recyclable materials
97
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we’re doing
We have undertaken an initial analysis that allows us to understand
the full extent of our material use in order to establish a baseline
for future reductions.
The diagram below is a visualisation of Areas of focus are:
our material inflow – or the total amount
Paper, pulp and board: used across Critical Raw Materials2: used
of raw materials that make up our
our products and packaging at an in our New Category products at
products and packaging.
equivalent of 349,084 tonnes. an equivalent of 3,050 tonnes.
Each bar represents the total weight
Plastics: used across our products Electronic components: primarily
of materials used across our
and packaging at an equivalent used in our New Category products
combustibles, Smokeless products
of 60,733 tonnes. at an equivalent of 544 tonnes.
and Other Tobacco Products.
We know that reducing our material Metals1: used across our product
footprint is critical to reducing the impact categories at an equivalent of
of our Scope 3 emissions. 11,216 tonnes.
The flow of raw materials into our product categories3
Material categories Product categories
Combustibles
Smokeless
products
Other Tobacco
Products
Key:
1 Paper, pulp and board 3 Liquids 5 Plastics 7 Battery and other critical raw materials
2 Leaf 4 Other 6 Metals 8 Electronic components
Notes:
1. Excludes critical raw materials used in batteries.
2. While we continue to report on conflict minerals, we are looking to understand our impact across other critical raw materials beyond tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TG), based on the list of
critical raw materials in the UK.
3. All numbers are based on 2023 procurement purchased volume data, using proxy data for some product components including batteries due to intellectual property restrictions. Mass
material data is extracted from our Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs). Packaging only refers to primary with the exception of combustibles which is available by bundle. Wellbeing and
Stimulation products have been excluded, as products were not available to purchase in 2023.
98
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Vapour products
In 2024, we introduced Vuse Go 2.0, a new single-use Vapour product with a removable
battery to facilitate better recycling. We aim to include removable batteries for all our
single-use Vapour products, by the end of 2029.
We aim to have all rechargeable closed system devices to include removable batteries
by year-end 2026.
+ See the ‘Consumer Education’ section on page 101
for more information on how we support consumers
to dispose of devices responsibly
Modern Oral
In France, Ireland, Denmark, Sweden and the UK, we recently launched two variants
of Velo cans certified by the International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC),
for using bio-plastic or Post-Consumer Resin (PCR) plastic through a mass-balance
approach1.
Used nicotine pouches are currently non-recyclable. We are working to address this
challenge and are analysing how to increase the material recyclability and recoverability
of our pouches.
Heated Products (HPs)
We have removed the polypropylene overwrap for our glo devices and starter kits and
replaced plastic inner trays with a pulp-based alternative.
In 2024, with each iteration of our glo Hyper devices, we have progressively increased
the proportion of recycled material in the packaging. Specifically, the recycled content
of the packaging has increased from 34% in the Hyper Air to 71% in the Hyper Pro.
For our HP consumables, we have introduced paper inner bundling to replace aluminium
and plastic laminates so that they can be recycled where facilities exist.
We also aim for new HP devices to feature removable and replaceable batteries.
Cigarettes
For our cigarettes, we have introduced paper inner bundling, where legally permitted, to
replace aluminium and plastic laminates so that they can be recycled where facilities exist.
Other Tobacco Products (OTP)
We are in the process of replacing all non-recyclable plastic laminate pouches with
technically recyclable materials.
Case study
Collaborating to recycle plastic waste
BAT South Africa and Ocean Plastic Technologies are embracing recycling by using
shipping containers as recycling hubs. This initiative focuses on repurposing materials
from used vaping pods, giving them a second life.
In its first year of operation, the project has recycled 29 tonnes of waste and created
over 30 jobs. The Durban and Heidelberg hubs each processed approximately 12 tonnes
of material for recycling, while the Cape Town hub processed nearly five tonnes.
Note:
1. 'Mass-balance' is a principle that matches inputs (such as plastic waste) with outputs from a recycling or production process, to determine the recycled content (source: zerowasteeurope.eu/
wp-content/uploads/2021/05/rpa_2021_mass_balance_booklet-2.pdf).
99
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we’re doing
Continued
Tackling operational waste
Operational Waste Footprint
Our Global Waste Centre of Excellence
(CoE) uses an integrated work system to 110.6
prioritise actions that reduce waste.
1.3%
thousand tonnes
of waste generated
of our operational waste Total waste disposed 13.2
sent to landfill in 2024 (thousand tonnes)
(versus <1% target by 2025) Total waste recycled 97.3
(thousand tonnes)
Summary of progress towards our targets
0 1 2
Less than 1% of our operational 2023 We are on track to meet our target.
1.8%
waste going to landfill by 2025
In 2024, 1.3% of operational waste was
% of operational waste going 2024 sent to landfill. Enhanced global waste
to landfill Target 1.3%
segregation contributed to 71% of our sites
sending zero operational waste to landfill.
0 25 35
Reduce the absolute volume 2023 We have achieved our 2025 target two
28.2%
of waste generated in our own years ahead of schedule.
operations by 25% versus 2017 2024
In 2024, we have continued to make
baseline Target 31%
progress, with a further 3.8% year-on-year
% reduction in waste generated
reduction versus 2023.
in our own operations
0 50 100
90% recycling rate of total waste 2023 We are on track to meet our target.
87.6%
generated across our own operations
In 2024, our waste recycling rate reached
by 2025 2024
Target 88.1% 88.1% across our own operations, versus
% waste recycled
87.6% in 2023.
Case study
Consumer awareness campaigns
The ‘Small Actions, Big Crimes’ campaign which sets out to tackle cigarette butt
littering, was launched in Italy in collaboration with the non-profit organisation
Marevivo and supported by the Ministry of Environment.
Within three years of launch, the campaign was activated in more than 12 cities, and
resulted in an average reduction of 53% in butt littering.
In 2024, the campaign shifted focus to the disposal of small Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment (WEEE) through a fully digital campaign, which included launching
a dedicated website (piccoligesti.eu) to educate consumers about the issue.
Additionally, the campaign partnered with Logista to promote their RECYCLE-CIG
programme, which installed more than 30,000 disposal units for WEEE disposal in
Italian tobacconists.
The campaign was also rolled out in Greece, reducing cigarette butt litter by over 60% in
Rafina and Naxos, and led to the responsible disposal of more than 530,000 butts
between 2021 and 2024.
Consumer awareness
The campaign provides dedicated disposal units and consumer awareness initiatives.
campaign. Napoli, Italia.
100
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our packaging composition1 Shortage in key materials
While we have made progress with most of
97% our Circularity targets, the global shortage
in key materials, such as food-grade post-
consumer resin has meant that we have
withdrawn our target of 30% average
Share of reusable, recyclable recycled content across all plastics
packaging.
or compostable packaging
Addressing this challenge requires
Reusable, recyclable or compostable 97% collaboration across industries, changes
packaging in government policies and investments
in national infrastructure.
Others 3%
Our target is for 100% of our total packaging to be reusable, recyclable or compostable
where facilities exist by 2025, which we remain on track to achieve.
We are moving from multi-material laminates to single-material packaging or laminates
where feasible.
Note:
1. Our packaging's recyclability calculation excludes about 1.7% of the total material used in our packaging,
representing exclusions due to regulatory requirements in certain markets and adhesives used in packaging.
Consumer education and awareness Smokeless products:
Cigarette littering: Our ecodesign principles will quantify
Although most consumers dispose of the impact of the materials we use in
their cigarette butts responsibly, too our products.
many still end up as litter. Research We know that continued partnerships
shows that education and awareness with waste management organisations
campaigns can be effective in encouraging and consumer education campaigns
responsible disposal. remain key to managing the end-of-life
However, to change consumer behaviour, of our products.
anti-littering awareness programmes and This global issue can only be addressed
What’s Next
initiatives need to inform consumers of through local interventions and a case-by-
the negative environmental impacts of case approach contingent on national
cigarette butts. waste management infrastructure
We continue to support such campaigns and requirements. Reducing post-consumer waste
with NGOs and the public sector across In Nottinghamshire, UK, we have partnered remains an area of focus.
our markets, for example through the with a waste management company to –Continuing to improve design and
‘Small Actions, Big Crimes’ initiative, pilot a collection and recycling programme data to inform our decisions based
discussed on page 100. for used vapour products. on ecodesign principles.
With the aim of creating industry-wide –Engaging with consumers
solutions, we have set up dedicated on responsible disposal.
recycling collection points in public spaces –Collaborating with other sectors and
for vapour products, including pods and waste management organisations
devices. to address challenges related to
recyclability, recycling and material
recovery.
Case study
Incentivising Pod Recycling
BAT New Zealand is rewarding consumers who participate in recycling.
Launched in 2022, the RePod scheme incentivises consumers to return used
Vapour devices and pods for recycling. Given the relatively limited options available,
BAT New Zealand collaborated with local suppliers to develop a recycling solution
that removes batteries and metals.
The recovered recyclable plastic components are then transformed into cleanstone
Definitions:
panels, which can be repurposed into items such as furniture.
Circular economy: The circular economy is an
To date, approximately 0.5 million pods have been recycled through this scheme economic model that is regenerative by design. The
and a further 1.2 million pods have been shredded. aim is to allow for renewability, remanufacturing,
recycling and biodegradation.
101
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
IMPACT AREA
COMMUNITIES
GLOBAL CHALLENGE
Inequality of opportunity
persists across various
dimensions.
Many people still face discrimination based on income,
sex, age, disability, sexuality, race, class, ethnicity or religion.
Businesses can positively influence both their own
workplaces and support broader society by promoting
equality, respecting human rights and empowering
communities.
102
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
LOCAL ACTIONS
Impact starts at
the community level
Supporting food security in Malaysia
The Beyond Benih ‘Going Beyond Seeds’ regenerative
agriculture initiative in Malaysia has now been rolled out
to 12 cities, impacting over 80,000 beneficiaries to date.
Created by BAT Malaysia, the initiative sets out to
increase food security, improve nutrition and foster
community building.
In collaboration with the Malaysian Department of
Agriculture and Residents’ Associations, the initiative
restores and enhances Malaysian urban areas. Targeted
at low-income households, it fosters community
engagement, social cohesion, and shared responsibility
among residents.
Through educating the residents about sustainable
agricultural practices and healthy eating habits, while
providing opportunities for skills development, Beyond Benih
instils a sense of ownership and stewardship of the land. The programme has
By locally sharing the Group’s regenerative agriculture best
empowered women
practices, Malaysian residents not only produce fresh,
healthy food, but also contribute to environmental and fostered economic
sustainability while enhancing urban resilience and
fostering community wellbeing. development to support
their families.
80,000
Ms. Vo Thi Bich Thuy
Vice President of the Women’s Union
beneficiaries impacted across
of Duc Hue District, Long An Province, Vietnam
12 cities in Malaysia
Women Empowerment
in Vietnam
Beyond Benih provides food Since 2022, BAT Vietnam has been working in
partnership with local authorities to establish
for local communities and
Women’s Empowerment Programme.
individual families with an The programme strives to enhance the
economic development of women by providing
additional source of income. them with interest-free loans to set up small
businesses and support animal husbandry.
Since its inception, more than 130 women
across local communities in Duc Hue and
Tan Thanh districts have benefited from
the programme.
Go online to learn
more about our approach
to sustainability
bat.com/sustainability-
and-esg
Mr. Ayub
Head of Residents' Association
in a Beyond Benih community garden
103
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Our Communities ambition
OUR AMBITION
Supporting
the livelihoods
and resilience
of our communities.
Our global operations include multiple supply chains,
from agriculture to electronics and manufacturing.
Across all these areas, there are human rights
considerations including workers’ rights, rural
poverty and the risk of child labour, in particular,
on small family farms.
We recognise our role to respect the human rights
of all workers and farmers in our value chain, as well as
members of the local communities in which we operate.
When it comes to our own employees, we believe we can
positively impact their lives by investing in their physical,
mental and financial wellbeing.
I am proud
of the enduring
relationships
we have built up for
generations with
the communities
in which we
operate.
Vladimir Moura
Head of Sustainability, Agriculture
104
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
How we’ll get there
Farming Communities
Our approach to managing human rights
1
Ambitions:
is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles for
Support prosperous
Business and Human Rights. livelihoods for all
farmers in our
We manage our impact through our due diligence and remediation programmes, tobacco supply chain
underpinned by a number of policies, including those outlined in our Standards
of Business Conduct (SoBC) and Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC). Our Thrive
Zero child and
programme collects data across a number of topics, including human rights.
forced labour
Based on a framework covering the five 'capitals' outlined below, Thrive sets
incidents in our
out to address challenges in farming communities.
tobacco supply chain
We participate in the Sustainable Tobacco Programme (STP) to promote by 2025
responsible tobacco growing practices.
We also conduct Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIA) and In-depth
+ Find out more:
Assessments (IDAs) to identify potential issues. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
for a full description of key terms
Our suppliers develop remediation plans based on these findings. We support and definitions at bat.com/reporting
farmers to enhance their livelihoods and tackle complex issues like child and
forced labour through various initiatives.
+ Read more about our policies and
procedures on pages 116 to 117
The five 'capitals' of our Thrive programme
Capital Descriptor
Financial Economic livelihoods of
farmers, including access
to resources
Natural The ecosystem necessary
to sustain agricultural
production and livelihoods
Human Skills, knowledge, labour
and human rights
Social Self-sufficient and resilient
communities
Physical Infrastructure needed to
maintain viable places to
live and work
Note:
1. These are our ambitions, which cover all tobacco we purchase for our products (‘tobacco supply chain’); which is used in our combustibles, Traditional Oral and Heated Products. Our metrics,
however, derive data from our annual Thrive assessment, which includes our directly contracted farmers and those of our third-party suppliers, which represented over 93% of the tobacco we
purchased by volume in 2024 (‘Thrive Supply Chain’).
105
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we're doing
Farming Communities
Working with local stakeholders to
implement community-focused initiatives.
Supporting living income Building resilient communities BAT Kenya, in 2023, introduced a women’s
We have been conducting an annual living We have developed a range of community development programme aligned with the
income analysis since 2022, based on the initiatives on women's empowerment, rural UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles2.
Anker Methodology1, a recognised gold development, and access to healthcare, Both directly contracted female farmers
standard for estimating fair wages and clean water, and sanitation. and women in the farming community
incomes for agricultural workers and small- BAT Bangladesh’s Probaho, now in its participated in the programme.
holder farmers. fifteenth year, provides safe and clean Through the two phases of the
In 2024, the methodology was adapted to drinking water to rural communities where programme, training was provided to
better represent the living costs of tobacco supplies have previously been scarce or more than 600 participants on women's
farmers in rural areas. Our analysis was contaminated. rights, financial literacy, entrepreneurship
applied to 97% of farmers in our Thrive To date, the programme has installed and agriculture.
Supply Chain. The results support the 126 filtration units and provided more In 2024, BAT Kenya also participated
creation of action plans to target key than 620,000 litres of water a day to in two further initiatives for income
income drivers, such as reducing over 310,000 people across 25 districts diversification of directly contracted
production costs, increasing yield, and in Bangladesh. female farmers.
diversifying crops. The farmers’ feedback
is provided to our Leaf suppliers, who
manage the action plans. Supporting our farmers throughout the growing cycle
Enhancing productivity while
reducing costs Our Field Technicians visit our directly contracted farmers once a month during
In Brazil, our Global Leaf Agronomy the growing season. The collaboration sets out to develop the skills of the farmers
Development (GLAD) centre designs in order to promote better yields and maintain standards as outlined in the
solutions with the support of agronomic diagram below.
technologies. These solutions improve crop
management, optimise resource use and
address challenges such as climate change
and soil degradation. These are now being
applied in 12 countries. For example,
automated curing barns, reduce fuel use
by up to 30% and manual labour by 45%.
Promoting income diversification
Assisting Providing
We support crop diversification
with market high-quality
programmes which are adapted to local
preparation crop inputs and
environmental and socio-economic realities.
and crop a fair tobacco
In 2024, 94% of our farmers in the Thrive diversification price
Supply Chain were reported to have
diversified crops. Farm monitoring,
To date, more than 138,000 farmers, farm prompt actions
labourers and local community members and remediations
have been trained on crop diversification.
Training and
In addition, several small-scale initiatives communications
are underway to identify potential crops
for additional income. Providing Providing
harvesting agrochemical
equipment equipment
and curing and
support support
Notes:
1. www.ankerresearchinstitute.org/anker-methodology
2. unglobalcompact.org/take-action/action/womens-
principles/
106
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Code of Human Rights Managing child and Health and Safety of our farmers
in Tobacco Farming forced labour risks Our Group Code of Human Rights in
In 2024, we introduced a new Group Code We recognise that child and forced labour Tobacco Farming as well as our
of Human Rights in Tobacco Farming, are complex issues and incidents can be Operational Standard for Personal
which applies to the Group's own Leaf hidden or under-reported. Protective Equipment (PPE) include more
Operations. Aligned to the UNGPs and Our digital platform, Farmer Sustainability stringent requirements on the availability
other international standards, it Management (FSM), is used by our Field and management of mandatory PPE.
consolidates existing standards as well as Technicians to record data during farm The requirements apply to all our directly
strengthens procedural requirements and visits of our directly contracted farmers. contracted farmers and their workers.
additional guidance on topics, such as We expect third-party suppliers to also
Over 30% of the FSM criteria are related
responsible contracting and management adopt similar standards.
to human rights. Technicians also conduct
of environmental impacts. All of BAT Leaf
unannounced visits, interviewing farmers In 2024, 98.99% of our farmers in our
employees in scope and directly contracted
and farm workers to check for child and Thrive Supply Chain reported to have
farmers have received training on the Code.
forced labour incidents and upload the data sufficient PPE for agrochemical use
In addition, more than 417,600 of the Group’s to FSM, which tracks any prompt actions and 94.27% for use when harvesting.
own Leaf Operations and third-party suppliers necessary for remediation identified. The introduction of more stringent
have conducted human rights training
We monitor 100% of our directly contracted requirements have led to gaps, which
focused on child labour and workers' rights.
farmers on child labour risk and prevention. resulted in a decline of PPE availability.
In 2024, we also established our Leaf Social Remediation actions have been
In 2024, 117 incidents of child labour were
Centre of Excellence to advance human implemented.
reported on 0.05% of farms in our Thrive
rights and community initiatives.
Supply Chain. Training sessions on the correct and safe
Maintaining standards through use, storage and disposal of agrochemicals
The majority of incidents were related to
grievance mechanisms and and Green Tobacco Sickness prevention
stitching and/or stringing tobacco green
assessments were attended by over 401,500 participants.
leaves. 100% of incidents were reported
We track access to grievance mechanisms as resolved during the growing season.
across our Thrive Supply Chain. In 2024,
In cases of recurring incidents, a farmer’s
97.96% of farmers and farm labourers
contract is not renewed for the next season.
reported having access to at least one type
There were zero recurring incidents this year.
of grievance mechanism channel. Of the
307 grievances raised in 2024, 100% were In addition, zero incidents of forced labour
reported as resolved by the end of the were reported in our Thrive Supply Chain.
growing season.
We conduct HRIAs and IDAs using a risk- Number of attendants engaged on
based approach. These assessments are What’s Next
human rights training, with emphasis
carried out in line with the United Nations
on forced labour and child labour
Guiding Principles (UNGPs) and conducted
by independent human rights experts.
500,000 Supporting our farmers to enhance
Since the first HRIA was conducted in 2019, livelihoods and build resilience.
we have completed HRIAs in 10 tobacco
418,584 417,628 – Focusing on living income action
sourcing countries, engaging with over 400,000
plans, diversification and training.
5,239 rights-holders. The evaluation
348,257
included themes, such as the potential risk –Implementing long-term solutions
of child labour, health and safety, workers' 300,000 and addressing root causes.
rights and farmer livelihoods.
IDAs have a wider scope and cover other 200,000
social and environmental topics. By the end
of 2024, 16 suppliers in 12 countries
underwent IDAs. 100,000
We continue to take steps to address
issues identified in HRIAs and IDAs, and
0
track remediation actions, as appropriate.
Participation in the Sustainable Tobacco 2022 2023 2024
Programme (STP) is a contractual
requirement for all our Leaf suppliers. The
STP mandates an annual self-assessment
covering key themes such as Human Rights.
All Leaf suppliers are expected to fully
adhere to the local laws and regulations,
as well as the STP's requirements. If a non-
compliance is identified, we take appropriate Definitions:
actions, including the suspension or Attendants: includes farmers, as well as farm
termination of the supply agreement. labourers and local community members.
Child Labour: The definition of child labour used to
identify child labour incidents is aligned to the International
Labour Organization's definition of child labour
(www.ilo.org/topics/child-labour/what-child-labour)
Prompt Action: A prompt action refers to an issue
that’s been identified by a field technician which is
deemed to require an immediate response due to its
nature.
107
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
How we’ll get there
Supplier Communities
Beyond tobacco leaf, we source product
Target:
materials such as paper and filters for cigarettes.
100% of product
For our expanding New Category products, the supply chain includes materials and higher-
electronic components and liquids for our Vapour consumables. risk indirect suppliers
to have undergone at
+ Read more about our policies and least one independent
procedures on pages 116 to 117 labour audit within
a three-year cycle
by 2025
+ Find out more:
Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
for a full description of key terms
and definitions at bat.com/reporting
Due diligence process for product materials and higher-risk indirect suppliers
New suppliers Existing suppliers
Product
material and
Risk-based higher-risk Independent
approach indirect on-site audits
Independent Our suppliers Assessment
suppliers
audit are required to on existing
Workplace comply with the suppliers
New
Conditions Supplier Code of based on their
Assessment supplier Conduct (SCoC) category and Supplier self-
approved country All other assessments
risk level suppliers verified by a
third party
Screening process for product materials and higher-risk indirect suppliers
Baseline supplier Output of risk Audited in 2024 On-site audit
screening screening outcomes
321
2,239 596
suppliers audited % of issues identified
Number Number of product annually out of which: relating to:
of product material material and higher-
and higher-risk risk indirect
indirect suppliers suppliers undergoing 156 Health and Safety:
undergoing initial further social audits 48.6%
screening
First-time audits
165
Working Hours: 17.4%
Re-audits Adequate Wages: 5.5%
Management
Systems: 13.8%
Other1: 14.7%
Note:
1. It includes environment, business ethics and living wages, amongst others issues.
108
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
What we’re doing
Social due diligence Type of incidents identified Responsible mineral sourcing
Our electronics supply chain includes
in third-party verified supplier
in our product material
multiple layers of suppliers, which create
self-assessments (%)
additional challenges for managing human
supply chain
rights risks.
Our SCoC applies to all our suppliers and
Our SCoC applies to all our suppliers outlines the actions we expect them to
and sets the standards for responsible take in relation to responsible mineral
business conduct. sourcing.
In addition, we take a risk-based approach In line with the OECD guidelines, we work
to social due diligence in our product with our suppliers for them to exercise the
material supply chain. appropriate due diligence required for
Scope of social due diligence identifying the origin of 'conflict minerals'.
All product material and higher risk indirect Being supporter members of the
suppliers are in-scope for our labour audits. Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
Product materials suppliers are those who provides access to cross-industry
supply non-leaf materials used in our initiatives, such as the Responsible
products, such as filters, paper, adhesives, Environment 33% Minerals Initiative, through which we have
liquids, devices and batteries. visibility of smelters’ audits.
Labour and Human Rights 32%
Higher-risk indirect suppliers are those who Findings are reported annually in our
supply machinery and point of sale Ethics and Sustainable Procurement 35% Conflict Minerals Report.
materials. Such data helps us improve the traceability
Our aim is for all such suppliers to have Managing audit findings of our minerals supply chain in order to
undergone at least one independent labour If an in-scope supplier is identified to fall identify areas of risk.
audit within a three-year cycle by the end below our minimum standards, we support + Read our Conflict Minerals Report on
of 2025. By the end of 2024, this was the supplier to develop an action plan and bat.com/investors-and-reporting/reporting/
achieved for 91% of in-scope suppliers. monitor its progress. conflict-minerals-report
Triage Process If a supplier does not show necessary
All in-scope suppliers are evaluated improvements, we terminate the contract,
through an independent risk assessment as appropriate.
platform, covering topics that are identified
Through this process, 23 suppliers made
as relevant for the Group, such as working
sufficient improvements to meet our
conditions and forced labour.
standards and 10 were removed from our What’s Next
The outcome of the risk assessment supply chain in 2024.
determines the type of the audit
Training and capability building
assigned, which can be either a third-party
In 2024, procurement relationships Working with suppliers to help
on-site audit or a third-party verified
managers across all regions were trained manage their supply chain impacts.
self-assessment.
on leveraging our audit partners to
Breakdown of audits progress the Group’s social agenda. –Advancing our efforts to manage
human rights risks.
Since 2022, 540 in-scope suppliers
The training provided guidance on how to
in 59 countries have undergone at least –Engaging with our suppliers to
monitor supplier performance and manage
one labour audit: improve the traceability of the entire
supplier relationships, based on the
supply chain.
–Tier 1 product materials suppliers: 388; findings of the labour audit.
–Preparing for new regulatory
–Lower-tier product materials suppliers: In addition, over the course of the year, we
requirements related to supply chain
48; and shared best practices and agreed common
due diligence.
–Indirect suppliers: 104. commitments with our suppliers at the
suppliers’ summit.
In 2024, 321 independent labour audits
were carried out. 156 were first time audits Our in-scope suppliers also received a step-
and 165 were re-audits of existing suppliers by-step guide on our audit processes and
due to previous audit performance. standards.
+ Read more about suppliers’ summits
321 on page 78
number of on-site or
self-assessment audits
conducted in 2024
Definitions:
Tier 1 suppliers: Directly contracted suppliers of final
products or product materials.
Lower-tier suppliers: Suppliers, with whom we have
a commercial relationship, who supply materials or
products to our Tier 1 Suppliers.
109
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
How we’ll get there
Employee Communities
Our Employment Principles set out our
1,2
Targets
approach to workplace diversity and equality.
Increase the proportion
Our SoBC include a Respect in the Workplace chapter, outlining our of women in Management‡
commitments to equality, diversity, anti-harassment, roles to 45% by 2025
anti-discrimination and employee wellbeing.
Increase the proportion
Our approach to Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is built on fostering accountability,
of women on Senior
diverse talent pipelines and an inclusive culture. Our Group Health and Safety
Leadership teams‡
Policy Statement is based on local and international labour laws and standards,
to 40% by 2025
and is designed to meet or exceed the requirements of applicable health
and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate.
Increase the Ethnically
+ Read more about our policies and Diverse4 proportion of our
procedures on pages 116 to 117 Senior Leaders‡ to 40%
by 2027
Employee breakdown by level Employee breakdown by level
in 2024 (Management‡ grade) in 2024 (Senior Leadership teams‡) + ‡ R F e in fe d r o to u t t h m e o B r A e: T 'Reporting Criteria'
for a full description of key terms
and definitions bat.com/reporting
Senior Managers:
Companies Act 2006
For the purposes of disclosure under
Section 414C(8) of the Companies
Act 2006, the Group had 172 male
and 64 female Senior Managers
as at 31 December 2024.
Senior Managers are defined here
as the members of the Management
Women 6,321 Women 600
Board (excluding the Executive
Men 8,208 Men 1,043 Directors) and the directors of the
Group’s principal subsidiary
undertakings.
+ For more performance metrics and operational data refer
The principal subsidiary undertakings,
to our Sustainability Performance Data Book on bat.com/reporting
as set out in the Financial Statements,
represented approximately 53% of
Group employees and contributed
Gender Diversity 2024 Female approximately 91% of Group revenue
in 2024.
Male
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Women on our
Board of Directors3 50% 50%
Women on our
Management Board 13% 87%
Notes:
Ethnic Diversity 2024 Ethnically Diverse4 Senior Leaders ‡ 1. These Group-wide targets do not represent quotas.
For each vacancy, the most suitable candidate,
Other regardless of their gender or ethnicity, should be hired.
We also recognise that there may be local requirements
or other circumstances that need to guide our hiring
practices in various locations where we operate.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
2.While our nationalities target was achieved for 2023
Proportion of and reported in 2024, we aim to replace this aspiration
Ethnically Diverse4 35% Target 65% in future years, in line with our evolving understanding
Senior Leaders‡ and the progression of the Diversity & Inclusion agenda.
3.Read more about the number of Women on our Board
of Directors on page 167.
4.See note 2 on page 111 for the definition of Ethnically
Diverse for the purposes of the ethnicity agenda.
110
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
What we’re doing
Championing Diversity and Inclusion Listening to our workforce Globally, 40% of our Board and 34.9% of
Our values are embedded in how we We have established a range of our Management Board and their direct
operate and empower our people to strive engagement channels to better understand reports are Ethnically Diverse1.
towards achieving our purpose of creating our employees’ perspectives. These include We continue to make progress against our
A Better Tomorrow™. market visits by our Directors and target for 40% representation for Ethnically
Management Board members, town halls, Diverse1 groups for the Management Board
+ Read more about our values
on pages 174 to 175 global, functional and regional webcasts, and direct reports by 2027, taking into account
Q&A sessions, and meetings with works the UK Government Parker Review Report.
Inclusive capability building councils and trade unions.
While we do not operate under a quota and In 2024, we introduced a new employee 34.9%
are clear that the most suitable candidate listening framework to strengthen existing
should be hired regardless of one’s gender engagement channels.
or ethnicity for each vacancy, we provide
This includes our global Your Voice surveys,
training on inclusive hiring and require of the Management Board
which are now conducted annually and
gender-balanced longlists from and their direct reports were
engage approximately 40,000 employees
recruitment agencies. worldwide, offering opportunities for Ethnically Diverse1 in 2024
Between 1 January 2019 and 31 December employees to share their feedback.
2024, we have hired over 5,400 individuals, + Read more about Main Board Diversity
46% of whom are women, bringing new + Read more about workforce engagement on page 167
on pages 182 to 183
capabilities, such as data analytics, digital, Rewarding our employees
sustainability, innovation, IP and science. The results of our surveys are shared with We aim to provide responsible and fair
We seek to enhance the leadership and our Board and all employees. This year, we remuneration and benefits globally.
functional skills of our employees through achieved a 92% participation rate and an
In 2024, we retained our independent
a range of Learning and Development engagement score of 84%, a year-on-year
accreditation from Fair Pay Workplace, for
programmes. increase of 4 percentage points, and ahead providing equal pay for work of equal value2.
of our global FMCG comparator group by
In 2024, an average of 18 hours of training
4 percentage points. Leadership and We also maintained our global scope for
were completed for over 14,500 of our
Management‡ grade employees. Empowerment; Reward and Recognition; and the equal pay for work of equal value
Talent Development were identified as areas gender analysis, covering over
We are seeking to focus on in-person training for improvement. 100 countries, and expanded our ethnicity
rather than virtual, which led to a reduction in analysis to include approximately 17,000
Engaging with Employee Resource Groups
the number of training hours per employee. Direct Employees‡ across eight locations,
(ERGs) is important to create an inclusive
We continued to increase the investment and representative culture. By listening to representing around 40% of our Direct
in learning for all employees with an average diverse perspectives we gain insights into
Employees‡.
of £453 per employee, an increase on 2023. the unique challenges and needs of our We are proud of the consistency we kept
Creating an inclusive work environment different employee communities. year-on-year in paying men and women
within 1% of each other, and Ethnically
We continue to promote positive outcomes Our D&I Group-wide ERGs are Women in
Diverse3 and Non-Ethnically Diverse3 groups
for employees with hidden or visible BAT and BUnited, our LGBT+ community.
within 1% of one another for doing the
disabilities and those with mental health
Diversity of our workforce same work or work of equal value.
conditions.
In 2024, 36.5% of roles on Senior Leadership
We launched our Neurodiversity Employee teams‡ and 43.5% of Management roles We were independently certified by the
Fair Wage Network (FWN) as a Global
Community this summer, to support and were held by women. As of 31 December
Living Wage employer for the second
raise awareness for neurodivergent 2024, 16,667 of our employees were women
consecutive year in 2024, recognising our
employees and their allies. and 32,282 were men.
efforts to pay all our direct employees the
Disability Confident Leader applicable living wage4, at minimum. This
36.5%
We are proud to retain our UK review covered our direct employees in
government-backed accreditation more than 100 countries.
Disability Confident Leader (Level 3) status
We offer our UK employees the opportunity
which remains valid until 2026.
of women on Senior to share in our success through our
This accolade acknowledges our efforts Leadership teams‡ in 2024 Sharesave Scheme, Partnership Share
in attracting, developing, and supporting Scheme and Share Reward Scheme, and
individuals with disabilities and long-term offer several similar schemes for employees
In addition to increasing the number of
conditions. in other Group companies.
roles held by women, our aspirations focus
on the diversity of nationalities and
+ For more information about Diversity
ethnicities within our workforce.
and Inclusion at BAT see our D&I Report
We collect voluntary ethnicity data bat.com/investors-and-reporting/
in 15 markets and have 68.5% Ethnically reporting/diversity-and-inclusion-report
Diverse1 employees in those markets.
Notes:
1. For the purposes of the ethnicity agenda, six global ‘Ethnically Diverse’ groups were determined considering BAT's global market footprint: Asian, Black, Hispanic/Latin American,
Indigenous, Mixed and Other Ethnic Groups. Individuals identified as White, those that have ‘Preferred not to Disclose’ and individuals that have ‘Not Disclosed’ i.e. their ethnicity field
remains blank, are not captured in the data set 'Ethnically Diverse’ groups.
2. Employees performing the same work or work of equal value are paid equitably and any differences in pay are for objective reasons and not influenced by factors such as gender and/or ethnicity.
3. For the purposes of our International Pay Equity Analysis, ‘Ethnically Diverse’ groups in the respective countries are defined as ethnic groups who, because of their physical or cultural
characteristics, are/were historically and systematically under-represented. Being a numerical minority is not a characteristic of being an Ethnically Diverse group; sometimes larger
groups can be considered Ethnically Diverse groups. ‘Non-ethnically Diverse’ groups in the respective countries are defined as ethnic groups who, because of their physical or cultural
characteristics, are/were historically and systematically represented.
4. Our definition of a 'living wage' is aligned with the UN Global Compact definition: "living wage is the local remuneration received for a standard work week that enables workers and their
families to meet their basic needs".
111
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
What we’re doing
Continued
Our ambition is for zero accidents across Preventing accidents
In 2024, we recorded the lowest Total
the Group and to provide a safe working
Recordable Incidents Rate since 2020.
environment for all employees and contractors. In 2024, there was a 26% reduction in
reported incidents, bringing them down
from 99 in 2023 to 73 in 2024.
This data is supported by a 26% reduction
in Lost Time Injuries compared to the same
Our health and safety approach
period last year, mainly driven by a
reduction in vehicle-related accidents
(41%); manual handling related incidents
(42%); and attacks and assaults (64%).
In 2024, 88% of our sites achieved zero
accidents.
Where accidents do occur, each one
is investigated and action plans are
implemented.
Reducing incidents across
our business
0.12
Lost time incident rate
(LTIR) in 2024
Lost Time Incidents
LTIR 0.19 0.17 0.12
90
75
Striving to maintain safety in our In 2024, we implemented a ‘Control Tower’ 60 58
direct operations and beyond model in our driver safety programme to
Our Environment, Health and Safety standardise the way we track and monitor 43
Management (EHS) System, which covers any unsafe driving behaviours. This led to
30
100% of our operations and includes our an approximate 41% reduction in vehicle-
EHS Policy Manual, provides guidance and related incidents compared to 2023.
procedures on implementing our Health In higher security-risk locations, we
and Safety (H&S) commitments effectively. continually assess threats and enhance our 0
In line with our Policy Statement and safety protocols. This might involve limiting
2022 2023 2024
Manual, we monitor H&S performance load values, planning routes strategically
across all our sites and a dedicated to avoid predictability, and offering
team identifies high-risk areas that security escorts. The reduction was driven by improvements
in H&S engagement and governance, such as:
require action. Our annual H&S compliance review
More than half of the work accidents in our is an important part of our Corporate –Increased cooperation across our
business operations tend to occur outside Governance. During the review, H&S business functions;
of BAT premises. representatives visit selected sites –Increased sharing of best practices
to check compliance with our Global across our markets; and
In Trade Marketing and Distribution
H&S Standards.
(TM&D), where there are high risks of road –Conducting more assessments for each
traffic accidents, attacks and assaults, we These reviews help us identify gaps and of our top four losses (vehicle-related,
manage risks through driver safety and support continuous improvement. slips and trips, manual handling and
security programmes. The results are reported to the Corporate attacks and assaults).
Audit Committee and any non-compliance
results in corrective actions.
112
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Monitoring human rights in our direct operations
We use Verisk Maplecroft’s human rights Human rights in the workplace
indices, including its Modern Slavery In 2024, we received 2301 reports of
Index, to assess the risk level faced by our alleged SoBC breaches relating to our
direct operations. Respect in the Workplace and Human
Assessment outcomes and resulting Rights Policy under the SoBC, which
action plans for higher risk direct were found to have occurred in
operations are considered by our 711 cases.
Board Committees. Actions were taken in response,
In 2024, 22 countries where we have including disciplinary actions that
direct operations were identified as resulted in 421 people leaving the
higher risk locations. Our direct organisation.
operations in these countries In 911 cases, no evidence of wrongdoing
underwent additional assessments to was found, and the remaining cases are
evaluate their compliance with Group still under investigation.
policies and standards.
Sadly, there were two fatalities in 2024, one Promoting employee health We also use data insights from claims,
being a member of the public and one and wellbeing through LiveWell utilisation, and employee feedback to
being an independent contractor. At the core of our people strategy and optimise our benefits portfolio, and elevate
We deeply regret this loss of life and the workplace is the Group’s commitment to the overall employee experience. Clear and
suffering it has caused to the families and fostering health and wellbeing, supporting engaging communication remains central
loved ones of the deceased. our colleagues to thrive personally and to these efforts.
For fatalities or serious incidents, we work professionally.
with the relevant authorities on their This is embodied by LiveWell, our benefits
investigations. Incidents are investigated and wellbeing platform, which has now
by local teams, to determine the cause, been introduced globally.
identify lessons and develop an action plan.
This initiative builds upon our competitive
In 2024, we launched a key EHS training core benefits and global policies, such as
programme to eliminate health and safety Parents@BAT, aligning with our refreshed What’s Next
losses, encourage safe behaviours, and values and D&I agenda.
manage BAT’s environmental impact.
Our core offerings include medical, risk,
The week-long, in-person training is for and pension benefits, complemented by Evolving our initiatives to foster
Health & Safety and Sustainability essential emotional and financial wellbeing impactful change.
Managers and is hosted by the Global support. –Focusing on diverse representation
Health and Safety CoE. Participants receive
To address the diverse needs of our global and inclusion.
a refresher on EHS expectations and
detailed knowledge of EHS components. workforce, we also encourage markets to –Introducing workshops and surveys
expand benefits into emerging areas such to embed our corporate values
The aim is to create experts who will as dependent care leave, wellbeing days, across the Group.
champion compliance and safety at their neurodiversity support, women’s health,
sites. We plan to conduct multiple and preventative care—where feasible. –Leveraging technology to support
iterations of this programme across skills development and safety
the Group in the years ahead, updating To ensure markets remain competitive programmes.
and align to LiveWell, we have initiated
the programme with the latest EHS
benchmarking reviews across all top markets.
best practices.
‡Definitions:
For the purposes of our Unadjusted Global Gender
Pay Gap and Pay Equity analyses, 'Direct Employees'
are permanent employees employed directly by BAT
Group companies. It does not include employees on
a leave of absence, employees on unpaid sick leave,
interns, students, apprentices, or fixed-term
contractors employed by third-party service
providers. iNovine (our Retail businesses in Croatia
and Bosnia and Herzegovina) are not in the scope of
the analysis.
Management: Management level employees include
all employees at job grade 34 or above (excluding the
Management Board), as well as any global
graduates. The gender of each employee is typically
recorded at the point of hire.
Senior Leaders: referred to in the ethnicity agenda
includes the Management Board and direct reports
Note:
of a Management Board member (i.e. MB and MB-1).
1. In 2023, we received 216 reports of alleged SoBC breaches relating to our Respect in the Workplace and Human Rights
Senior Leadership teams: defined as employees in
Policy under the SoBC, which were found to have occurred in 68 cases. Actions were taken in response, including
disciplinary actions that resulted in 33 people leaving the organisation. In 73 cases, no evidence of wrongdoing was Management Grades 37-41.
found, and the remaining cases are still under investigation.
113
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Sustainability Governance
Overview of Board-led Group governance arrangements
that include oversight of sustainability matters
As we strive to reduce the health impacts of our products, we also seek to
manage the environmental and social impacts of our business responsibly.
Doing so necessitates careful and effective governance of our impacts, risks,
and opportunities. Our governance framework supports sustainable, long-term
decision-making.
Board Level Oversight
Board of Directors Audit Committee
Responsible for the long-term success of BAT and Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s internal
the Group’s strategic direction, purpose, values and controls, auditing matters, and business risk and compliance
governance – including sustainability, climate systems, and oversees the Group's sustainability reporting.
and nature strategy.
ÿ ÿ
Management Board Oversight
Management Board Group Risk Committee Corporate Audit Committee (CAC)
and Regional Audit Committees
(RAC)
Responsible for overseeing the Oversees assessment and monitoring Reviews the effectiveness of the
implementation of Group strategy, of Group risks. accounting, internal control and
including sustainability and business risk identification and
environmental matters. management systems within the central
business functions and regions.
ÿ ÿ
Leadership Team Oversight
Group Sustainability Operations Leaf Sustainability Supply Chain Due
Leadership Team Sustainability Forum Forum Diligence Committee
Oversees the Group’s Has oversight of Reviews strategic direction Reviews product material
sustainability priorities, environmental and social and environmental and social supply chain performance
development, strategy, performance, the Leaf performance across the Leaf and supplier audit
and reporting. Sustainability Forum and supply chain. escalations for our non-Leaf
Supply Chain Due Diligence supply chain.
Committee.
HR Leadership Business Integrity Panel Regulation and Science Responsible Marketing
Teams Committee Committee
Oversees Talent, Reward and Oversees investigations of Provides strategic oversight Provides strategic guidance
D&I strategic performance. alleged non-compliance with on scientific matters. and oversight on matters of
our SoBC and the consistent responsible marketing,
application of the SoBC including underage access
Assurance procedure. prevention.
ÿ ÿ
Departments, Functions, Regions and Markets
114
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Integrating sustainability into In 2024, the Audit Committee was briefed The Sustainability objectives within the
our governance practices on developments in sustainability reporting remuneration of Tadeu Marroco, Chief
Regulatory requirements and stakeholder regulations by the Chief Sustainability Executive, and Soraya Benchikh, Chief
expectations continue to evolve at speed. Officer and KPMG as external auditor. Financial Officer, are focused on the
Having appropriate governance is key to Briefings covered continued reporting in Group’s progress in achieving its
delivering on our sustainability alignment with TCFD recommendations, Smokeless Future ambitions. From 2025,
commitments. The effective oversight and the European Sustainability Reporting a climate metric will be introduced into the
management of sustainability-related risks Standards introducing future requirements Group's Short-Term Incentive Plan, linking
and opportunities are essential to BAT’s for disclosures in compliance with the EU compensation of Executive Directors and
ability to deliver A Better Tomorrow™. Corporate Sustainability Reporting wider employees with the decarbonisation
Directive (CSRD), development of the UK of our operations.
Board oversight
Sustainability Disclosure Standards, and
Governing our material impacts
The Board is collectively responsible for the the adoption of climate disclosure rules by
long-term success of the Company and the the U.S. SEC (although the SEC climate To manage our material sustainability
Group’s strategic direction, purpose, values disclosure rules are currently stayed). impacts we have set up topic-specific
and governance. This includes responsibility Centres of Excellence at the middle
for the Group's strategy and ensuring that Management’s role management level. These include Climate
resources are allocated appropriately to The Management Board, chaired by Change, Circular Economy, Nature and
meet these objectives and to manage risks, our Chief Executive, is responsible for Social Centres of Excellence. In addition,
including through internal controls. overseeing the implementation of the individual business functions, such as
Group’s strategy and policies set by Legal, Corporate & Regulatory Affairs and
The Board has strategic oversight of our
the Board, including those relating to HR, manage material issues relevant to
sustainability matters and takes climate-
sustainability. It also creates the framework their areas. The management of material
related considerations into account where
for the day-to-day operation of the sustainability topics is also discussed in
applicable when making strategic
Group’s subsidiaries. various committees and forums, such as:
decisions, including in relation to
budgeting, risk management and Members of the Management Board are –Group Sustainability Leadership Team,
overseeing capital expenditure. responsible for delivery against targets –Environmental Sustainability Committee,
under their individual remit with respect to
The Audit Committee receives reports –Operations Sustainability Committee,
sustainability, including those relating to
from the Group’s Regional Audit
Harm Reduction. They are supported by –Leaf Sustainability Forum,
Committees and Corporate Audit
their respective teams who, in turn, work –Supply Chain Due Diligence Committee,
Committee, which monitor the
with other functions and markets to make
effectiveness of business risk management –Responsible Marketing Principles
progress towards the Group’s targets.
and internal controls across our regions Steering Committee,
and central functions. The Audit We continue to integrate the management –Regulation and Science Committee,
Committee also has oversight of the of sustainability impact areas across
external assurance of sustainability-related relevant business areas at Group, regional –Business Integrity Panel; and
information. The Nomination Committee and local market levels. This allows for the –Talent Reward and D&I Leadership Teams.
considers sustainability experience when appropriate flow of information, monitoring Issues considered in these forums are
reviewing Board composition. and oversight of issues across the Group. raised, where appropriate, at Management
Sustainability expertise Integrating sustainability Board level or with the Audit Committee or
at the Board level considerations into remuneration the Board.
Our Board members have international Where relevant, the Management Board
experience including a wide range of (including the Director, Operations) have
leadership expertise in industries such as individual performance objectives that
fast-moving consumer goods, form part of their responsibilities and are
infrastructure, food, beverage and tobacco, linked to their remuneration. These include
among others. To varying degrees, their delivery against climate-related priorities
experience includes the oversight of and metrics.
companies impacted by a range Performance against personal objectives
of environmental and social issues. forms part of the consideration in
Non-Executive Directors receive regular determining performance ratings of
briefings on legal and regulatory relevant employees, which in turn are
developments, including the evolving reviewed as part of discussions to
sustainability landscape. determine compensation.
The Group retains the discretion to
make downward adjustments to
individual bonus payments in the event
of persistent underperformance against
performance objectives.
115
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Sustainability Policies,
Procedures and Standards
A clearly defined governance framework to Our Group policies (indicated by* in the
table below) are approved by the Board and
support management control and Board-level are implemented for application by all
Group companies.
oversight of sustainability matters. This provides
Our Group policies are underpinned by a
the policies, procedures and standards to range of principles, statements, operating
procedures, standards and guidelines to
determine and guide how we operate our business
help support effective implementation of
– from local markets and business units up to our commitments.
Together, this framework supports the
Board level.
effective identification, management and
control of risks and opportunities for our
business in these and other areas.
Policies, Procedures Key Stakeholder
and Standards Summary of Areas Covered Groups
Standards of Business Sets out our policies for: Speak Up; respect in the workplace; human rights; health; Our people
Conduct (SoBC)* safety and welfare; environmental; lobbying and engagement; conflicts of interest; Governments
Available at bat.com/principles anti-bribery and corruption; gifts and entertainment; political contributions; and wider society
community investment; protection of corporate assets and financial integrity;
competition and anti-trust; anti-money laundering and tax evasion; sanctions; anti-
illicit trade; data privacy; and cybersecurity, confidentiality and information security.
Supplier Code Covers compliance; human rights; environmental sustainability; trade Customers
of Conduct* and marketing; business integrity; and cybersecurity, confidentiality and Suppliers
Available at bat.com/principles information security. Governments
and wider society
Group Environment Commits to following standards of environmental protection, adhering to the Our people
Policy* principles of sustainable development and protecting biodiversity in our direct Consumers
Available at bat.com/principles operations and supply chain. Includes an assessment of our value chain impacts, Suppliers
Customers
Circular Economy principles, biodiversity commitments and metrics and targets.
Governments
and wider society
Group Health Covers health, safety and welfare of our employees, contractors, visitors and other Our people
and Safety Policy relevant stakeholders. Governments
and wider society
Statement*
Available at bat.com/principles
Employment Principles* Sets out our commitments to workforce diversity, reasonable working hours, Our people
Available at bat.com/principles family-friendly policies, employee wellbeing, talent, performance, equal
opportunities, and fair, clear and competitive remuneration and benefits and
responsible restructuring.
Responsible Marketing Governs marketing of all our products and includes the requirement for all our Consumers
Principles (RMP)* marketing to be targeted at adult consumers only. The RMP is supported by the Suppliers
Available at bat.com/principles Responsible Marketing Code. Customers
Governments
and bat.com/responsible-
and wider society
marketing
Group Quality Policy Formalises how we strive to deliver high-quality products through appropriate Consumers
Statement processes, procedures, resources, and training.
Available at bat.com/principles
Product Stewardship Sets out the steps we take for responsible product development and Consumers
Framework* manufacturing and reflects our commitment to meet high quality and safety Suppliers
Available at bat.com/principles standards. Guides product development and testing, helping to promote a Customers
Governments
rigorous and systematic approach.
and wider society
Biodiversity Statement Sets out the principles we follow to manage our impact on biodiversity and the Our people
Available at bat.com/principles wider environment. Suppliers
Governments
and wider society
Biodiversity Operational Sets out requirements that all of the Group's own Leaf Operations must adhere to for Our people
Standard on Tobacco the following tobacco crop activities: use of wood as fuel for tobacco curing and for the Suppliers
Farming construction of curing barns; new farmland development for growing tobacco; and Governments
and wider society
tobacco farming and associated agricultural practices. Third-party Leaf suppliers are
also required to follow this standard within their own practices and operations.
116
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Key Stakeholder
Policies and Procedures Summary of Areas Covered Groups
Climate Change and Provides guidance for our employees who have responsibility for implementing Our people
Energy Standard climate change-related initiatives. Suppliers
Customers
Governments
and wider society
Green Mobility Standard Outlines our strategy for reducing the environmental impact of our car fleet, Our people
namely carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (COe), air pollution, and noise Suppliers
2
reduction through the deployment of electric vehicles. Governments
and wider society
Low Carbon Transition Plan Describes our Climate strategy and how we intend to transition our processes, Our people
operations, and business models to meet our climate commitments. Suppliers
Customers
Governments
and wider society
Environment and Health Sets out comprehensive guidance and procedures for Group companies Our people
and Safety (EHS) Policy on the implementation of EHS policy commitments. Governments
and wider society
Manual
Suppliers
Operational standard Requires all directly contracted farmers and their workers to have appropriate Our people
for personal protective access to PPE. Suppliers
Governments
equipment (PPE)
and wider society
Water Security Standard Sets out guidance for Group companies on water conservation, managing Our people
water-risk, and actions for our sites in water stressed areas. Suppliers
Governments
and wider society
Soil and Groundwater Defines the controls and standards required for Group companies to prevent Our people
Protection Standard and protect against spillages and leakages that could impact soil or groundwater. Suppliers
Governments
and wider society
Group Code of Human Outlines the core human rights standards that we expect all the Group’s own Leaf Our people
Rights in Tobacco Operations to implement. The Code complements our Global Supplier Code of Governments
Farming Conduct, Leaf Supplier Manual and Standards of Business Conduct, and applies and wider society
to all BAT employees and the Group’s own Leaf Operations.
Leaf Supplier Manual Sets out the detailed standards we expect our suppliers to adhere to. These Suppliers
(LSM) include a range of criteria relating to standards in agricultural practices, quality Governments
specifications and processing, such as relating to agrochemicals compliance and wider society
and the prevention of child labour.
Anti-illicit Trade (AIT) Sets out guidance for all Group companies for complying with our AIT Policy Our people
Supply Chain Compliance in the SoBC. It sets out procedures for maintaining robust supply chain controls Suppliers
Procedures and taking appropriate action where there are risks that our tobacco and/or Customers
Governments
products may be smuggled.
and wider society
Group SoBC Assurance Defines how all reports of alleged SoBC breaches should be investigated and Our people
Procedure remediated fairly and objectively. This includes a four-step process, involving
an initial assessment, in line with data privacy and employment laws, followed
by an investigation plan, implementation, reporting of findings, and closure.
Sanctions Compliance Outlines our comprehensive sanctions compliance framework covering Group Our people
Procedure companies, suppliers, third parties and financial transactions. Suppliers
Customers
Governments
and wider society
Third-Party Anti-Financial Sets out Group-wide minimum mandatory steps required for our dealings with Our people
Crime Procedure third parties. Designed to assess and mitigate third-party risks regarding: bribery Suppliers
and corruption; money laundering; terrorist financing; illicit trade (supply chain Customers
Governments
compliance); sanctions; and the facilitation of tax evasion.
and wider society
Mergers and Acquisitions Sets out mandatory steps, along with best-practice guidelines for M&A Our people
(M&A) Transactions transactions involving any Group company and one or more third parties covering Suppliers
Compliance Procedure compliance risks, such as bribery, corruption and human rights. Customers
Governments
and wider society
Counter Terrorist Covers Group Companies, suppliers, customers and financial transactions. Our people
Financing Procedure The Procedure has been designed to identify, assess and mitigate the terrorist Suppliers
financing risk. Customers
Governments
and Wider Society
117
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
Creating a Culture of Integrity
Our approach to responsible business conduct
Our Standards of Business Conduct (SoBC) cover key compliance matters,
our approach to external stakeholders and cybersecurity matters.
Through our Delivery with Integrity programme, we aim to
increase awareness on business ethics and drive a consistent
approach to the application of our SoBC across the Group.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) Not all contacts involve breaches. Some Alleged SoBC breaches in 20242
defines the minimum standards expected relate to questions regarding the SoBC.
of our suppliers in key areas, including For substantiated breaches, we take
compliance, human rights and business appropriate disciplinary actions, ranging
integrity and cyber-risk. The Anti-Illicit from formal written warnings to the
Trade (AIT) chapter is integral to our SoBC termination of employment. Where
and sets out the controls all Group appropriate, we will report matters
companies must have in place to prevent to the relevant authorities.
and deter illicit trade. Our Supply Chain
Addressing non-compliance
Compliance Procedures (SCCP) support
with our SoBC
our customers in complying with our
In 2024, 512 of all the 8693 SoBC contacts
AIT chapter. These requirements
were assessed as alleged SoBC breaches
are incorporated into our contractual
and reported to the Audit Committee in
arrangements with suppliers
accordance with Group reporting
and customers.
procedures. In 50% of these alleged
+ Read more about our policies breaches, the person raising the case
and procedures on pages 116 to 117 chose to remain anonymous. Our SoBC Policy areas Breakdown (%)
Assurance Procedure, which was reviewed
We adjusted the review schedule of the Social and Environment
and revised in 2024, defines how all reports
SoBC and SCoC from every two years to (Workplace and human rights) 47
of alleged SoBC breaches should be
every year from 2024, and this year we
triaged, investigated and remediated fairly Corporate Assets and Financial Integrity 29
reviewed and updated our SoBC and SCoC
(both effective as of 1 January 2024) as well and objectively. Our Business Integrity Personal and Business Integrity 19
Panel's role is to see that the procedure is
as other procedures such as our Sanctions Others not relating to a specific
applied consistently. In 2024, figures for
Compliance Procedure (effective 20 May policy area 0
detailed investigations conducted into all
2024) to keep pace with the evolving
reported cases were: National and International Trade 4
regulatory environment. We also
implemented a new Counter-Terrorist –No wrongdoing was found in 1633 cases; External stakeholders
(Lobbying and public contributions) 0
Financing Procedure to support the –Investigation ongoing at year-end for 1853
management and mitigation of Group anti- cases; and Data does not add up to 100% due to rounding up
financial crime risks in this area. The updates –1643 cases were established as breaches Promoting compliance
to these three policies and procedures were and appropriate action taken2. Our Sanctions Compliance Framework and
communicated to Group employees by our
senior Legal leadership team. In 2024, the established SoBC breaches Third-Party Anti-Financial Crime Procedure
resulted in 813 people leaving BAT and 483 take a comprehensive approach to
Enabling everyone to Speak Up
written warnings. If any weakness in promoting compliance with a range of legal
Our SoBC and SCoC make it clear that internal controls is identified, the and regulatory requirements applicable to
our employees, business partners and appropriate measures are taken to the Group. In 2024, our sanctions training
suppliers should Speak Up if they have strengthen them. programme has focused on specific
a concern about actual or suspected employees working in functions or markets
wrongdoing. We do not tolerate with elevated sanctions-sensitive risks. It is
harassment, victimisation or reprisals of designed to support them to build
any kind against anyone raising a concern, confidence in identifying key sanctions
as such conduct is itself a breach of our compliance risks.
SoBC. Anyone can use Speak Up, including
In 2024, we delivered training across our
employees; contractors; contingent
Group companies to enhance colleagues’
workers; business partners; customers;
understanding of sanctions, anti-financial
suppliers, and their workers. They can raise
crime, and supply chain controls, among
concerns (anonymously if preferred)
other topics.
through our confidential, independently
managed online and telephone 'Speak Up'
channels, available 24 hours a day in local
languages. They can also speak to Human
Resources, their line manager or a
Designated Officer.
Notes:
1. N/A
2. Consistent with our reporting approach, cases are not included in the above if they were not resolved at the end of the previous reporting period. Refer to our Sustainability Performance
Data Book 'Reporting Criteria' for further information.
3. In 2023, 427 of 707 SoBC contacts were assessed as alleged SoBC breaches and reported to the Audit Committee in accordance with Group reporting procedures. In 2023, figures for
detailed investigations conducted into all reported cases were: No wrongdoing was found in 135 cases; Investigation ongoing at year-end for 169 cases, and 123 cases were established
as breaches and appropriate action taken In 2023, the established SoBC breaches resulted in 79 people leaving BAT and 53 written warnings.
118
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The training was delivered to both Group- Preventing and tackling illicit trade Regulation and engagement
wide and specific audiences, depending on in tobacco and nicotine products As key chapters of our SoBC, our 'Lobbying
the need, to bolster internal competencies Focusing and maintaining controls to and Engagement' and 'Political
in essential compliance areas, further prevent diversion of genuine BAT products Contributions' policies have been
promoting a culture of integrity. We are is a key component in our fight against illicit implemented by all Group companies and
developing additional trade as set out in the AIT chapter of our apply to all our employees.
risk-based training programmes for our SoBC and SCCP. These policies require all our engagement
employees to enhance third-party risk
We have a dedicated Forensic and activities with external stakeholders to be
management of suppliers, with practical
Compliance Team that analyses seized conducted with transparency, openness
tools to reinforce the tone from the top and
products, determines counterfeits and and integrity.
the middle, and to improve access to
relevant training. identifies illicit machinery used in their For global regulatory priorities, the views
production. They maintain supply chain we advocate are published on our website,
We also introduced a compliance-related controls through a seizure management and we have long supported the OECD’s
business performance objective for all process tailored to satisfy our contractual Principles for Transparency and Integrity
relevant employees, including the and regulatory obligations. in Lobbying.
Management Board and all Legal
department employees. By attaching The team is also instrumental in We also respect the call for transparent
measurable business deliverables for these conducting Empty Pack Survey, an AIT and accountable interaction between
employees to ‘Do the Right Thing’, we research tool that provides insight into governments and relevant stakeholders,
seek to further promote a culture of incidences of illicit trade in specific markets including the tobacco industry, established
integrity across the organisation. or geographies. in Article 5.3 of the World Health
Among other supply chain controls, Organization’s Framework Convention on
As set out in our M&A Transactions
in 2024, we rolled out an eLearning Tobacco Control. We are open about what
Compliance Procedure, our due diligence
programme to all relevant employees we think, and always try to offer
procedures for mergers, acquisitions and
(i.e. roles related to supply chain constructive solutions that will best meet
corporate ventures include human rights
interactions and monitoring). The focus the objectives of regulation, while
and modern slavery checks. If risks are
was on due diligence procedures, and the managing any negative unintended
identified, mitigation steps are taken
completion rate for the 2024 SCCP consequences. Regulatory engagement
as appropriate.
eLearning was 100% across the by our businesses is monitored throughout
approximately 10,000 in-scope employees. the year by our Regional Audit Committees.
Case study
Globally developed, locally deployed
Maintaining a consistent ethical culture across the Group is a fundamental objective
of Delivery with Integrity, BAT’s compliance programme.
This goal is driven by the central compliance team, which designs the global
compliance framework, and it is executed by local teams across markets, who focus
on adapting the controls and communications to mitigate risk and strengthen
compliance in areas of local business relevance.
To do so, the local teams adopt various channels and approaches that fit their own
needs. These may include employee focus groups to identify challenges or identify
departmental champions to drive messages at grassroot level. Some local market
teams build compliance into Town Hall sessions so it is seen as an integral part of
‘Business As Usual’ (BAU) as well as running dedicated integrity-themed
communications campaigns tailored to the local context and focused on how
individuals contribute to the collective culture of integrity.
119
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
A summary of our response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) recommendations is set out below.
Under the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) UK Listing Rules, our reporting is consistent with the four TCFD recommendations
and 11 recommended disclosures set out in Figure 4 of Section C of the TCFD report “Recommendations of the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures”, including the guidance set out within the 2021 TCFD annex.
We will continue to develop our climate-related disclosures. For more information see page 136.
TCFD at a glance: Summary of our response
1 Governance
Disclose the organisation's governance around climate-related issues and opportunities
a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate- Our Board has oversight of our climate-related risks and opportunities. The Board approves + Read more
related risks and opportunities. the Group’s environmental targets. It reviews the Group's environment strategy, targets and on pages 114
performance twice a year and the Group risk register, which includes climate-related risks, and 121
annually. The Audit Committee reviews the Group risk register twice a year and oversees the
Group's approach to TCFD reporting.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing Management is responsible for identifying and assessing risks including climate-related + Read more
and managing climate-related risks and impacts, risks and opportunities. Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage on pages 114
opportunities. the risks identified and progress against those plans is monitored. and 121
2 Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation's businesses, strategy, and financial
planning where such information is material
a) Describe the climate-related risks and We have identified six climate-related risks and two opportunities. For each, the level of + Read more
opportunities the organisation has identified likelihood and impact has been analysed up to 2050 with a particular focus on 2030 and on pages 122
over the short, medium, and long term. 2050 to match the time frames of our key sustainability commitments. to 129
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks We have assessed the impact of these risks and opportunities on our strategy and financial + Read more
and opportunities on the organisation’s planning. The results show that, while there are financial risks that would need to be managed, on pages 122
businesses, strategy, and financial planning. these are not substantive enough to require a material change to our business model. to 129
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s While there are climate-related challenges and uncertainties ahead, we believe that the + Read more
strategy, taking into consideration different Group is well placed to manage the risks associated with all three of the scenarios modelled on pages 122
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or (including a 2°C or lower scenario) given the mitigation activities we have established. to 129
lower scenario.
3 Risk management
Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks
a) Describe the organisation’s processes We identify and evaluate risks and opportunities, including climate-related risks, which + Read more
for identifying and assessing climate- are captured on risk registers and assessed against five risk impact levels. In financial on pages 130
related risks. (quantitative) terms, Severe is deemed as in excess of £1bn, Significant £500m-£1bn, and 131
Moderate £250m-£500m, Minor £120m-£250m and Insignificant £60m-£120m in any
12-month period, as defined by our risk management framework.
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage the risks, including + Read more
managing climate-related risks. climate-related risks identified, and progress against those plans is monitored. Decisions on pages 130
on how to manage the risks are based on a variety of considerations, including risk score, and 131
our ability to influence or control the risk and cost and effectiveness of mitigation.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, Our processes for identifying, assessing, and managing risks, including climate-related risks, + Read more
assessing, and managing climate-related are integrated across the Group as part of our Risk Management Framework. This includes on pages 130
risks are integrated into the organisation’s biannual reviews of the Group risk register by our Group Risk Management Committee, and 131
overall risk management. chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Group risk register is also reviewed annually by
the Board and biannually by the Audit Committee.
4 Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material
a) Disclose the metrics used by the We have a set of metrics for each of our sustainability focus areas, including climate + Read more
organisation to assess climate-related risks change, against which we report on our performance and progress each year. on pages 132
and opportunities in line with its strategy and 136
and risk management process.
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if We disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions and related risks in our reporting. + Read more
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) on pages 132
emissions, and the related risks. and 136
c) Describe the targets used by the Our targets to manage climate-related risks and opportunities include 50% reduction of + Read more
organisation to manage climate-related Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. We have also submitted to the SBTi for approval targets of a on pages 132
risks and opportunities and performance 30.3% reduction in Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions and a 42% absolute reduction in Industrial and 136
against targets. (non-FLAG) GHG emissions by 20301, and Net Zero value chain GHG emissions by 2050.
These are supported by a range of other environmental targets against which we report
our performance and progress each year.
Note:
1. The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions target includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end of life
treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions
in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating and assuring Scope 3 data from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. In 2024, we have
further enhanced our Scope 3 calculation methodology and data precision leading to the reporting periods 2021 to 2023 being restated accordingly. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting.
120
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
1 Governance
Board oversight Management’s role These local management meetings and
The Board’s oversight of and We seek to integrate the assessment and committees report into the Operations
Management’s role in assessing and management of climate-related risks Sustainability Forum, chaired by the
managing our sustainability agenda is across relevant business areas at Group, Director, Operations. This acts as a conduit
outlined at page 115. regional and local levels, with appropriate to track delivery of environmental targets
Our Board takes climate and nature-related management oversight at each level, and gain visibility of new and emerging
considerations into account where as shown on the chart on page 114. risks posed by climate change.
applicable when making strategic Our approach provides a flexible channel The Operations Sustainability Forum oversees
decisions, including in relation to for the structured flow of information, business plans to mitigate risks identified,
budgeting, risk management and monitoring and oversight of climate-related reviews performance and tracks progress
overseeing capital expenditure. The Board risks and environmental matters at the level of our regions and business units in delivering
has approved all Group environmental and format best suited to the context. the Group’s environmental targets.
targets (including for GHG emissions) and Our Management Board, chaired by
receives an update on performance twice our Chief Executive, is responsible for + R G e o a v d e r m na o n re c e ab o o n u p t a o g u e r s S u 11 s 4 t a to in 1 a 1 b 5 i a li n ty d about
a year from the Director, Operations. overseeing the implementation of Group our TNFD disclosure on pages 137 to 152
The Board reviews the Group risk register, strategy and policies, and monitoring
which incorporates climate and nature- Group operating performance, including
related risks, on an annual basis. In addition, in relation to sustainability and climate.
the Board reviews the Group budget which Management Board members are regularly
takes into account capital allocation to updated on material risks and development
deliver the Group’s sustainability agenda of strategic plans, including those relating
and associated targets. to climate change and nature, along with
+ Read more about our Climate Change associated risk mitigation plans, by risk
and Circular Economy risk in the Group owners, risk managers and their respective
Principal Risks on page 161 and in the teams. This includes regular monitoring by
Group Risk Factors on page 415 the Group Risk Management Committee,
chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
In 2024, the Board assessed environmental
performance, including progress towards The Chief Corporate Officer has overall
achieving climate targets of 50% reduction responsibility for the strategic delivery of
in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (against the Group sustainability agenda, supported Key topics considered
2020 baseline) and 50% renewable energy by the Sustainability team, including our
in 2024 at Board level
use by 2030 as well as deforestation and Chief Sustainability Officer, Head of
conversion free targets. In 2024, the Board Sustainability Regulatory Reporting and that included climate
also received an in-depth briefing on sustainability subject-matter specialists
and nature-related
developments in sustainability regulations across the Group.
including analysis from UK, European and The Director, Operations has overall matters:
U.S. perspectives. responsibility for the execution of the
The Board has delegated certain Group’s climate and nature strategy and
–Environmental performance
responsibilities to the Audit Committee, environmental targets, supported by the
(in February and July 2024)
including for review of the effectiveness of Group Head of Operations Development
the Group's risk management and internal and Sustainability, the Operations –Approval of the ARA and 20-F
control systems, including those relating to Sustainability team, the Group (in February 2024)
climate change. The Audit Committee Sustainability team and regional –In-depth review of sustainability
reviews the Group risk register twice a year Sustainability managers. reporting regulations in April 2024
and reviews the Group's progress against Each reporting unit reports on a monthly –Approval of the revised Group
sustainability targets, including emission basis. Monitoring and reporting of climate targets, including FLAG
targets that address climate-related issues consolidated Group performance and and Non-FLAG emission reduction
(see targets on page 133). metrics is completed quarterly by the targets in July 2024
In 2024, the Audit Committee continued to Group Operations Sustainability team. –Group risk register (annually
oversee developments in our approach Each directly-reporting business unit has in July 2024)
to reporting in alignment with the TCFD an Environment, Health & Safety (EHS)
–Review of the Group's sustainability
and TNFD frameworks, including the Steering Committee, with overall
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
use of climate scenario analysis in our responsibility to deliver environmental
by the Audit Committee in
risk assessments. targets at site level held by the General
September 2024
Manager or site manager. EHS is also a
The Chair of the Audit Committee provides –Review of business stakeholder
standing agenda item for management
a full briefing to the Board following each engagement in September 2024,
meetings and governance committees
Audit Committee meeting, including which included an update on the
at area, regional and global levels.
decisions taken and key topics discussed refreshed Double Materiality
by the Audit Committee. Assessment
–Budget Review (including
Operations sustainability budget)
in December 2024
–In depth review of approach
to sustainability reporting in
December 2024
121
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy
Our purpose to build A Better Tomorrow™ and long-term Net Zero targets to the –Building a climate-resilient supply chain
and our Group strategy are set out on Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) for in partnership with our key direct and
page 12. We have also set out our strategic approval1. In 2022, we published our Low indirect suppliers (see page 85) and
sustainability focus areas, with climate Carbon Transition Plan (LCTP), which performing climate scenario analysis to
change as a key pillar, on page 66. outlines how we intend to align our understand the resilience of our business
We rely heavily on natural resources to run business model with a world in which the against a set of identified climate-related
our business and our ability to secure these rise in global average temperature should risks and opportunities;
resources is directly linked to the effects of be limited to no more than 1.5°C above pre- –Collaborating with our directly
climate change. Not only does the climate industrial levels and how we can contribute contracted tobacco farmers to introduce
crisis impact society and the environment, to an economy that works for people and sustainable agricultural practices
it also threatens our business growth. It is the environment by addressing climate- (see page 84);
therefore imperative that we develop related risks and opportunities. –Promoting a circular economy model
mitigation and adaptation strategies and + Read more about our approach to to reduce downstream emissions
work together with the private and public Financial Planning in Decarbonisation (see page 96); and
sector to take action. in our 2022 Low-Carbon Transition Plan
at bat.com/LCTP –Managing our ecosystems, to enhance
In this context, BAT currently has a target the resilience of our internal supply chain
to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Our climate strategy and wider supply chain (see page 89).
by 50% by 2030 (against a 2020 baseline). To deliver on our climate goals, we have an
In 2024, and in line with the Science Based integrated climate strategy covering both + Read more about our approach to
Targets Initiative (SBTi) Forest Land and our own business operations and supply managing our environmental impacts
within our sustainability material topics
Agricultural (FLAG) guidance, which chain. Key attributes of our climate on page 81
requires companies in certain sectors like strategy include:
ours to set FLAG targets, we submitted Financial planning in decarbonisation
–Reducing the environmental impact of
new, near-term Scope 3 Forest, Land and The risks and opportunities posed by
our direct operations (see page 83);
Agricultural (FLAG), industrial (non-FLAG) climate change are addressed through our
financial planning and form a critical part of
our Net Zero GHG emissions strategy. We
Our climate strategy have incorporated Internal Carbon Pricing
(ICP) in our financial planning and rolled out
a balanced scorecard for capital
investment activities across our Global
Operations, whereby the environmental
and social impacts of potential projects
are considered against our commitments
and targets. Through this approach, we are
Invest in able to enhance our decision-making and
Climate
energy governance processes to consider these
scenario
efficiency impacts, particularly where policy and
analysis for
key tobacco- projects and regulation do not yet exist and, therefore,
growing areas management Increase the effectiveness of conventional financial
systems renewable appraisal tools such as Net Present Value
energy
and payback analysis is reduced.
sourcing
Financial planning elements that
Build a
have been influenced by risks
climate-resilient
supply chain and opportunities
Enter into The Group’s climate change-related risks
For our For our longer-term and opportunities are considered in our
Value Chain Operations power-purchase strategic and financial planning, our capital
agreements
allocation decisions and our operational
Life cycle management. The impacts of risks and
assessments
opportunities arising from climate change
for our product
categories Invest in on-site help inform our strategies and financial
renewable planning to enhance the overall resilience
energy of our business.
Help farmers
generation
deploy innovative,
low-carbon Roll out projects
curing electric
technologies and hybrid
and farming vehicles in
techniques our fleet
Note:
1. We plan to rescind our 2021 Scope 3 emissions targets following approval of our new Scope 3 targets by the SBTi which is expected during the first quarter of 2025.
122
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
The climate scenario analysis undertaken has Capital allocation The process of managing these risks is
been performed against three time horizons: As part of our financial planning, we require embedded in our financing principles which
(i) short term (2025-2030): this time period significant capital investments to include are reported on to the Board. Operationally,
is linked to our 2030 sustainability carbon emissions impact calculations funding is also discussed at the Corporate
commitments, (ii) medium term (2031-2040) which are priced into cash flow projections Finance Committee (chaired by our Chief
and (iii) long term (2041-2050), which aligns using ICP, as well as marginal abatement Financial Officer).
to our LCTP across our value chain. cost, and most recently, Balanced We also have a Treasury Risk Committee
Our material climate-related risks and Scorecard appraisal tools. that meets monthly and monitors climate-
opportunities are detailed on pages The level of ICP is reviewed annually and, related risks in the context of the Group's
124 to 129. following a benchmarking of external financing needs. In terms of metrics, we
Revenue metrics, it was set at £75 tCO 2 e in 2024. have an established medium-term target
credit rating which seeks to achieve a
Physical risks of climate change have Capital investment
balance between balance sheet
the potential to adversely impact revenue We fund a dedicated capital expenditure
requirements and access to capital as well
through supply chain constraints. Our budget that is used to progress the delivery
as various other metrics. In addition, the
business planning helps us to mitigate of our sustainability commitments.
Corporate Treasury team is embedded in
these risks through detailed continuity
In 2024, this amounted to £30 million with key discussions on sustainability, as well
plans such as sufficient inventory durations
investments in energy efficiency and as dialogues through debt investor
(with a trade-off on working capital and
renewable energy generation, water engagement to understand the dynamics
funding costs) to mitigate short-term
recycling and efficiency projects, waste of sustainability impact on funding and
supply risks and understanding the longer-
reduction, and product innovation-led capital markets. The Corporate Treasury
term risks on our supply chain.
specification improvements to enhance team takes appropriate actions to mitigate
In addition, sustainability is an increasing technical recyclability. potential impacts on our access to capital
factor in consumer purchasing decisions. That Assets and liabilities due to sustainability factors.
is why we continuously seek insights that feed
The impact of climate change is considered Climate scenario analysis
into future product innovations and initiatives.
in the estimates of future cash flows used Identification
+ Read more about our approach in impairment assessments. Our 2024 The selection of the risks and opportunities
to end-of-life processes and product assessment concluded that climate in our TCFD report was reviewed in 2023 as
circularity on page 97
change risks are not yet material, therefore a result of our Double Materiality
Direct operating costs the impacts were not included in the Assessment^ process and sustainability
Ways in which climate change financial statements. The assessment is risk register, which captured risk
considerations can impact cost of sales detailed in note 12 of the financial information gathered from the
and, as such, are considered as part of our statements. identification and assessment of the Group
financial planning include: sustainability-related risks.
+ Read more about the impact of climate
–Tobacco leaf cost increases due to change as part of our impairment + See more details on our DMA
potential supply constraints caused disclosure on page 293 on page 70 and our Sustainability Risk
by chronic or extreme weather events; Access to capital Management process on page 130
–Raw materials and innovation cost Climate risks and opportunities may impact The identification of risks and opportunities
increases due to raw material shortages BAT’s financing in multiple ways, for is reviewed annually so that it remains
and enhancements to our product example: appropriate in the context of a dynamic
designs to reduce waste and increase business and physical environment, and to
climate change may impact
recyclability; and take account of improved data or modelling
the business financially through
–The potential cost of emerging potentially higher costs and/or our which may become available.
regulation, as well as taxes on carbon consumers' ability to buy our
emissions and increases to the cost of products which, if they materialised,
energy impacting our direct operations could impact our profitability and
and wider value chain as we transition credit ratings; and
to a low-carbon model.
perception of our investors towards
our sustainability progress which
could reduce their willingness to
invest in BAT or restrict our access to
capital, should BAT fail to achieve, or
be perceived as having failed to
achieve, sufficient progress.
By having clear visibility of climate-related
Understanding material
risks and opportunities and mitigating
these where possible, the Group expects risks and opportunities:
to have continued access to capital and to
be able to undertake acquisitions or
divestments, as needed. In our TCFD reporting, material risks
and opportunities are those that
could reasonably be expected to
Note: affect financial position and
^ Although financial materiality has been considered in the development of our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA), our performance over the short,
DMA and any conclusions in this document as to the materiality or significance of sustainability matters do not imply medium or long term.
that all topics discussed therein are financially material to our business taken as a whole, and such topics may not
significantly alter the total mix of information available about our securities.
123
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy continued
Likelihood Key Strategy Resilience Key
■ Remote Strong: The targets and mitigation actions in place are providing BAT confidence in our business resilience
■■ Unlikely Medium: Targets and mitigation actions are in place, but external events may challenge our business resilience
■■■ Possible Needs work: Developing targets and/or mitigation actions to improve our business resilience
■■■■ Likely
■■■■■ Probable
Climate change-related risks and opportunities summary table
Estimated financial impact Likelihood
Risk/Opportunity on profit in a year* 1.5°C 2°C 3-4°C Strategy resilience
Transition risks
Carbon Taxes up to £390 million ■■■■ ■■■ ■■ Strong
Product Taxes up to £180 million ■■■ ■■■■ ■■ Strong
Energy Costs up to £200 million ■■■■ ■■■ ■■ Strong
Cost Capital/Insurance up to £300 million ■■■ ■■■■ ■■■■■ Strong
Physical risks
Acute Weather - Value Chain up to £150 million ■■ ■■■ ■■■■■ Strong
Chronic Weather - Leaf up to £240 million ■■ ■■■ ■■■■■ Medium
Transition opportunities
Products and Services up to £230 million ■■■ ■■■ ■ Medium
Energy Sourcing and Efficiency up to £60 million ■■■ ■■■ ■ Strong
Note:
* These estimated financial impacts represent sensitivities and are considered incremental costs compared to our current financial position.
Strategy Resilience Summary The two physical risks are more significant Supported by our global reach, supply
As described on pages 124-129, while there in the 3-4°C warming scenario and relate chain flexibility, diverse product portfolio,
are climate-related challenges and to the impact of extreme weather events leading brands, and capital strength, we
uncertainties ahead, we believe that the and changes to precipitation patterns believe that we have the resilience and
Group is well placed to manage the risks principally affecting our tobacco agility to transition and create new
associated with all three of the scenarios supply chain. growth opportunities.
modelled due to our existing and planned The majority of our risks and opportunities The insights gained from the climate
mitigation and adaptation initiatives. are not expected to show significant modelling further strengthen the
Transition risks are most notable in relation regional variations. The most notable importance and relevance of our climate
to carbon taxes, new regulation on regional variations concern our two acute strategy and Net Zero GHG emissions
products, higher energy costs and and chronic weather physical risks given target to mitigate these risks. We will
increased costs of capital and insurance. they relate to the sourcing of tobacco, continue to review each material climate-
particularly from South America, Sub- related risk and opportunity and build
Saharan Africa, South Asia and the U.S. upon our existing mitigation strategies
The climate-related opportunities are to enhance the resilience of our climate
modest and relate to the potential launch strategy and our business to climate change.
of products with sustainability-related + Read more about our climate scenario
features that consumers may value and analysis on pages 123 and 129
optimisation of our energy strategy.
124
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
Methodology and assumptions As such, we have aligned our climate The analysis considers the impact to the
In accordance with TCFD, we have scenario analysis to the IPCC methodology, business for both 2030 and 2050 using the
conducted our climate scenario analysis on and GHG concentration trajectories known methodology defined in the Group Risk
at least one scenario under 2°C or lower. as Representative Concentration Pathways Management Framework.
We have aligned our methodology to the (RCP) 2.6 and 8.5, specifically considering The modelling drew on external and
most recent Intergovernmental Panel on three climate scenarios: internal data sources. External sources
Climate Change (IPCC) assessment1, which –1.5°C ‘Sustainable Transition’ were used for carbon and energy pricing
indicates that limiting global warming to –2°C 'Delayed Transition' projections using REMIND-MAgPIE 3.3-4.8
1.5°C is necessary to prevent the most datasets while internal sources were used
severe consequences of climate change. –3-4°C ‘Climate Inaction’ for the timing of carbon and product-
In 2024, we have refreshed our modelling related taxes; Group financial data; energy
to reflect changes that occurred in the consumption and costs by BAT site;
current reporting year. category growth projections; and
As in previous years, quantitative consumer trends.
assessments were performed to
understand how the potential impact and
likelihood of risks and opportunities may
change under each time horizon and
climate scenario.
Time horizons
2030 2050
We have modelled six climate-related risks This time frame reflects the end date of This time frame aligns to our Low Carbon
and two opportunities. For each, the level our current targets in relation to 50% Transition Plan across our value chain and
of likelihood and impact has been analysed reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions and our commitment to Net Zero GHG
across three time frames being short-term our SBTi submitted targets of 30.3% emissions, which incorporates an
up to 2030, medium-term up to 2040 and reduction in Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions awareness of the highly uncertain potential
long-term up to 2050. The 2030 and 2050 and 42% absolute reduction in Industrial risks and opportunities.
time frames have been selected as they (non-FLAG) GHG emissions by 2030. The
align to our external targets (further details analysis links our most recent business
of which are shown in this table). 2040 was plans, including glide-paths across our
selected for our medium-term time horizon, operations to mitigate risks and maximise
given that it represents a suitable mid-point opportunities that may arise to enable the
between the other two periods. effective delivery of our business
objectives and external commitments.
Three climate scenarios
Sustainable Transition Delayed Transition Climate Inaction
Description To contain global warming Significant action by Countries are unable to
to 1.5°C, a wide-ranging economic actors is delayed meet pledges laid out
transition of our global to 2030, after which a rapid within the Paris
economy would be transition of our global Agreement and global
required, encompassing economy would be warming reaches 3-4°C.
policy and regulation, required, encompassing Transition risks are
economic and societal policy and regulation, considered to be much
shifts, and the economic and societal lower, while physical risks
development and shifts, and the development would be much higher
deployment of new and deployment of new driven by significant
infrastructure and infrastructure and impact to biodiversity as a
technologies. In this technologies. In this result of acute and chronic
scenario, transition risks scenario, transition risks are weather events.
are more significant than more significant although
the severity of physical physical risks are
risks that may arise. considered higher than
under the Sustainable
Transition scenario.
Estimated 2100 warming 1.5°C 2°C 3-4°C
Note:
1. AR6 Synthesis Report: Climate Change 2023
125
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy continued
Risk impact scoring
In accordance with our Group Enterprise Risk Management approach, the scenarios and their impacts were assessed on a residual basis,
which means that mitigation actions were taken into consideration in the risk impact scoring assessment.
Risk Score / Financial Impact (p.a.)
Severe Significant Moderate Minor Insignificant
In excess of £1 billion £500m-£1bn £250m-£500m £120m-£250m £60m-£120m
Climate change-related risks and opportunities
Transition risks associated with transitioning to a low carbon economy
Risk overview and assumptions Impact Mitigations
Carbon taxes Financial impact –Implementation of our Low Carbon
New carbon pricing mechanisms on Carbon pricing mechanisms expose Transition Plan energy efficiency
the emissions within our value chain the Group to additional costs in both initiatives
increase costs. the Sustainable and Delayed Transition –R&D developing new products with
scenarios. This year we updated our lower CO 2 e footprint - supported by
model to more recent external data the Green Design Tool, which enables
product development teams to assess
Related targets: 50% reduction which increased carbon price forecasts
materials and components based on their
in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for Sustainable Transition.
CO impact in relation to our targets
by 20301; our SBTi submitted 2
targets of 30.3% reduction in 2024 2030 2040 2050 –Engagement with suppliers to support
reduction in their value chain emissions
Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions 1.5˚C
and 42% absolute reduction in scenario
Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG 2˚C
emissions by 20301; and Net scenario
Zero GHG emissions across 3-4˚C
our value chain by 2050. scenario
Geographical impact
Carbon pricing mechanisms will impact
all regions.
Product taxes Financial impact –R&D developing new products with
Governmental mandates on, and Product regulations may expose the lower CO 2 e footprint, supported by
regulation of, products and services Group to additional costs if product taxes the Green Design Tool, which enables
increase product taxes around such as Extended Producer Responsibility product development teams to assess
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) schemes and taxes on plastics are materials and components based on their
schemes, plastics and waste disposal. widely introduced around the world to CO 2 e impact in relation to our targets
drive reductions in emissions and waste. –Working with third parties to pilot
This year we have updated our model device and battery recycling solutions
Related targets: <1% waste
to reflect the increased roll-out of EPR –Expanding initiatives to accelerate
to landfill by 2025 schemes in the EU with a slower product circularity
transition to the rest of the world, which
is reflected both in the Sustainable and
Delayed scenarios.
2024 2030 2040 2050
1.5˚C
scenario
2˚C
scenario
3-4˚C
scenario
Geographical impact
Initially, product regulations will largely
emanate from European countries, but
they are likely to spread.
Note:
1. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030 science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions
target includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG
emissions target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating Scope 3
data from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting.
126
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
Risk Score / Financial Impact (p.a.)
Severe Significant Moderate Minor Insignificant
In excess of £1 billion £500m-£1bn £250m-£500m £120m-£250m £60m-£120m
Transition risks associated with transitioning to a low carbon economy (continued)
Risk overview and assumptions Impact Mitigations
Direct and indirect energy costs Financial impact –Decarbonising our operations through
Increasing energy prices impacting Energy pricing may expose the Group to energy efficiency measures
direct operating costs, as well as additional costs. This year we updated our –Transitioning to lower emissions and
the cost of buying raw materials model to reflect updated external data renewable sources
or manufactured goods from which forecast significantly lower –Engagement with suppliers to support
our suppliers. electricity prices across all scenarios. them in running energy efficiency projects
2024 2030 2040 2050
Related targets: 50% reduction 1.5˚C
in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions scenario
by 20301; our SBTi submitted 2˚C
targets of 30.3% reduction in scenario
Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions 3-4˚C
and 42% absolute reduction scenario
in Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG Geographical impact
emissions by 20301; and Net
Energy pricing impact will be felt
Zero GHG emissions across
throughout most parts of the world.
our value chain by 2050.
50% renewable energy use by
2030; and 20% of suppliers set
Science Based Targets by 2025.
Cost of capital/insurance Financial impact –Ongoing risk engineering programme
Contraction of financial services Potential 25 basis points impact for 1.5˚C to comply with internal guidance and
markets arising from climate change and 2˚C scenarios and 50 basis points for regulation
could result in increased cost of 3-4˚C scenario. –Site and supply chain resilience through
capital and insurance or a reduction Full impact of credit adjustment felt over business continuity plans
in its availability. time as c.50% of currently issued bonds –Engaging with key insurance and capital
mature by 2030, with over 90% by 2050. stakeholders on sustainability metrics
Related targets: N/A Assumed increase of 20-40% for and risks
insurance costs across the three –Continuing to access diversified funding
scenarios. sources
2024 2030 2040 2050
1.5˚C
scenario
2˚C
scenario
3-4˚C
scenario
Geographical impact Increases in cost of
capital/insurance will impact all regions.
Note:
1. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030 science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions
target includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG
emissions target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating Scope 3
data from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting.
127
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy continued
Risk Score / Financial Impact (p.a.)
Severe Significant Moderate Minor Insignificant
In excess of £1 billion £500m-£1bn £250m-£500m £120m-£250m £60m-£120m
Climate change-related risks and opportunities continued
Physical risks associated with physical impacts of climate change – either acute risks (relating to extreme weather
events) or chronic risks (such as relating to longer-term shifts in climate patterns and higher temperatures)
Risk overview and assumptions Impact Mitigations
Acute weather Financial impact –Leaf farmers adopt sustainable
Increased severity and frequency Potential financial impact greatest under agriculture practices to increase our
of extreme weather events such as Climate Inaction scenario due to increased resilience to extreme weather under
cyclones, floods and heatwaves frequency and heightened severity. agronomy management plans
leading to agricultural supply chain –Business continuity plans across
2023 2030 2040 2050
disruption and / or reduced production the supply chain including leaf,
capacity resulting in increased costs. 1.5˚C manufacturing, distribution and
scenario
key suppliers
2˚C
–Loss prevention programme for
scenario
property risks
Related targets: 50% reduction 3-4˚C
in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions scenario
by 20301; our SBTi submitted Geographical impact
targets of 30.3% reduction in
Sourcing of tobacco, particularly from
Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions
South America, Sub-Saharan Africa,
and 42% absolute reduction
South Asia and the U.S.
in Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG
emissions by 20301; and Net
Zero GHG emissions across
our value chain by 2050.
Chronic weather Financial impact –Water efficiency and stewardship
Continued change in climate leading Potential financial impact greatest under programmes
to ongoing changes in precipitation the Climate Inaction scenario due to a –Customised agronomy plans for each
patterns and temperatures resulting higher tobacco yield loss. This year we sourcing country
in increasing levels of water stress updated our model to reflect our latest –Carbon Smart Farming programme –
in our agricultural supply chain and outlook on forecasted leaf demand and review of our inventory duration
lower yields. prices our analysis revealed that the policies to enhance the resilience
financial impact is consistent with our of our supply chain
2023 assessment.
–Expansion of Climate Diagnostic Model
2023 2030 2040 2050 to key suppliers
Related targets: 50% reduction 1.5˚C
in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions scenario
by 20301; our SBTi submitted 2˚C
targets of 30.3% reduction in scenario
Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions 3-4˚C
and 42% absolute reduction scenario
in Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG Geographical impact
emissions by 20301; and Net
Sourcing of tobacco, particularly from
Zero GHG emissions across
South America, Sub-Saharan Africa,
our value chain by 2050.
South Asia and the U.S.
Note:
1. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030 science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions
target includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG
emissions target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating Scope 3
data from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting.
128
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
Opportunity impact scoring
In accordance with our Group Enterprise Risk Management approach, the scenarios and their impacts were assessed on a residual basis
- which means that actions were taken into consideration in the opportunity impact scoring assessment.
Risk Score / Financial Impact (p.a.)
Severe Significant Moderate Minor Insignificant
In excess of £1 billion £500m-£1bn £250m-£500m £120m-£250m £60m-£120m
Opportunities* associated with transitioning to low carbon economy
Opportunities overview and assumptions Impact Actions
Products and services Financial impact –Incorporation of end-of-life treatment
Developing more sustainable products Consumer sensitivity to sustainability- and increased technical recyclability
to meet consumers’ increasing related features assumed to be higher into product design
demands. under the 1.5oC scenario, with the greater –Increasing access to product Take-Back
opportunity for additional growth in New schemes to support responsible disposal
Categories compared to combustibles. –Innovation to deliver more circular
Related targets: 100% of
products
our packaging to be reusable, 2024 2030 2040 2050
recyclable or compostable 1.5˚C
by 2025. scenario
3-4˚C
scenario
Geographical impact
Opportunities envisaged across all
regions as New Categories products
continue to be rolled out globally.
Energy sourcing and efficiency Financial impact –Decarbonising our operations through
Investment in lower-emission sources Energy sourcing and efficiency is an energy efficient measures
of energy or more efficient production opportunity for the Group under both the –Transitioning to lower emission and
and distribution processes within our Sustainable Transition and Climate renewable sources
direct operations. Inaction scenarios through accelerated
decarbonisation of our value chain. Overall
additional savings are considered low due
to the absolute level of the Group’s energy
Related targets: Increase the
costs and the progress made over the last
proportion of renewable energy few years.
we source to 50% of total
energy consumption by 2030. 2024 2030 2040 2050
1.5˚C
scenario
3-4˚C
scenario
Geographical impact
All sites are focusing on reducing energy
costs.
Note:
* A 2˚C scenario was not modelled for opportunities as the impact is considered to be materially similar to the 1.5˚C scenario.
129
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
3 Risk Management
Introduction The output from this exercise, which Sustainability risks and relationship
The Group applies a consistent involved consultation with over 40 BAT with our Group risk register
methodology for assessing and quantifying subject matter specialists, will further Sustainability risks identified and assessed
sustainability-related risks and support the business to better understand, through the IROs exercise include both
opportunities, utilising our risk management assess and manage climate-related risks, physical and transition climate risks as well
framework. Climate-related risks remain a alongside closely related areas like as climate related effects on nature-related
key focus, especially as global temperatures biodiversity loss and water scarcity, risks (e.g. water scarcity). Sustainability
continue to rise. Climate change remains a supported by data from our sustainability risks are aligned to relevant ESRS Topics
principal risk to the business and in 2024 we management platform and risk and Sub-topics and are then considered as
enhanced our focus by separating the management system. drivers or impacts to each relevant Group
previously combined Climate Change and Climate diagnostics tool risk (e.g. Supply Chain Disruption and
Circular Economy risk into two distinct risks. In parallel, we aim to continue to refine our Supplies of Leaf & Agri-ingredients) as part
The separation reflects the unique drivers, climate diagnostic tool, designed to identify of the risk assessment process. This
impacts and challenges of each area, potential climate-related physical hazard approach is designed to ensure that every
recognising the need for tailored mitigation ‘hotspots’ (both acute and chronic) and risk fully reflects relevant sustainability
strategies. By isolating these risks, we are analyse evolving patterns and trends under considerations. The climate change risk on
able to continuously improve our approach various climate scenarios (1.5, 2, and 3-4 ˚C the Group risk register is an aggregation of
to managing climate-related exposures, and global warming) projected for 2030 and multiple physical (acute and chronic) and
strengthen the resiliency of the business. 2050. Currently the tool provides valuable transition risks identified through the IROs
In 2024, we launched the Group’s insights into the potential impact of exercise and includes clearly defined
Sustainability Reporting Programme, climate change on our manufacturing mitigation activities. This provides
a cross-functional initiative, which includes operations and other key sites. Working enhanced visibility of the risk profile to the
representatives from Operations, with our partners, we are exploring ways to Group Risk Management Committee.
Sustainability and ERM, designed to meet expand this tool across wider areas of the
evolving disclosure requirements and business and incorporate resilience data.
ensure assurance on non-financial
sustainability related disclosures. This
programme leverages the Group’s risk
management framework, drawing on our
risk management system, methodology
and risk registers.
In 2024, we enhanced our Double
Materiality Assessment (DMA) to prepare
for EU CSRD reporting in 2026, in relation
to year-end 2025. This assessment built on Integration of climate-related risks
previous initiatives such as climate into the Group Risk Management Framework
scenario modelling (physical and transition
risk) and included a comprehensive review
of a wide range of Impacts, Risks, and
Opportunities (IROs) across BAT’s value "Direct and indirect adverse impacts associated with Climate
chain. These IROs were described and Change” is recognised as a principal risk to the Group; impact
assessed at a granular level, and evaluated and mitigation steps are set out on page 161.
using a detailed, ERM-aligned scoring Group relevant climate-related objectives, targets and metrics
framework to determine a materiality are articulated and monitored.
threshold. Climate-related risks were Climate and other sustainability risks are captured as risk factors
thoroughly incorporated throughout this within the individual Group risks.
process, with associated risks and
opportunities scored in line with our Group
risk management framework.
Functions are required to identify and assess risks and
opportunities, including climate-related physical and
transitional risks.
Environmental, Social and Governance thresholds are set out
in the Group Risk Management Manual and are used by the
Group when assessing risks.
Functions are required to review all physical asset values
and associated business interruption impact across the Group
to understand the potential impact from climate change.
Directly-reporting business units (DRBUs) are required to
identify and assess risks and opportunities, including climate-
related physical risks.
130
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
3 Risk Management continued
Risk management process outlined in the Group’s Risk Management receive appropriate specialist attention.
In combination with the risk management Manual, provides a consistent approach to This year, the Group revised its risk
processes detailed above, we use risk management, facilitating effective management framework to assess risks
standardised risk registers at Group, understanding, management, recording, on both an inherent and residual basis. This
functional, and DRBU levels to identify, monitoring, and communication of risks two-stage assessment allows for a clearer
assess, manage, and monitor both financial across the Group. It also integrates understanding of initial risks in their
and non-financial risks, including climate- climate-related risks into the overall risk unmanaged state and the effectiveness
related risks. This four-step process, management framework, ensuring they of mitigation efforts (managed state).
Additionally, risks are now assessed and
prioritised at five levels based on their
impact and likelihood, enhancing
Our Risk Management Process
assessment accuracy and precision in risk
scoring and reporting. The Group Risk
Management Committee oversees these
–Events, situations or circumstances that would processes and works to maintain ongoing
adversely affect the achievement of business compliance with our ERM methodology.
objectives, including the failure to capitalise on Risk assessment methodology
opportunities, are considered.
There are various criteria, both qualitative
Identify –Climate-related risks and opportunities (including
and quantitative, against which impact
existing and emerging regulatory requirements)
may be measured. Impact ratings are
are identified through a combination of internal
applied to risks across five levels (Severe,
stakeholder consultation, desktop research, external
Significant, Moderate, Minor, Insignificant).
consultation, and insights from our climate scenario
In financial (quantitative) terms, Severe
modelling and climate impact assessments.
–When a potential risk is identified, the causes are impact is deemed as in excess of £1bn,
examined thoroughly and any potential consequences, Significant £500m-£1bn, Moderate
time frame and mitigation activities are identified. £250m-£500m, Minor £120m-£250m
and Insignificant £60m-£120m per annum.
Risks below £60m are not included in the
Group risk register but are managed and
–The potential size, scope and duration of climate- reported at regional and DRBU level. The
related risks are assessed in the same manner
qualitative impact is assessed based upon
as the Group's other risks and as part of BAT’s
the scale of the detrimental effect of the
standardised risk management practices.
risk. Similarly, likelihood is assessed using
Assess –Risks are prioritised at five levels by reference to
five categories: Remote, Unlikely, Possible,
their impact (Severe/Significant/Moderate/Minor/
Likely, and Probable. Following the
Insignificant) and likelihood (Remote, Unlikely,
application of these standardised risk
Possible, Likely, and Probable) as defined in our
Group Risk Management Manual. assessment procedures, risks (including
–Risks are scored based on a combination of their climate-related risks) are prioritised based
impact and likelihood ratings and captured within on their relative significance to the Group
associated risk matrices. as a whole.
Risk monitoring methodology
Risk data, including assessment
–Mitigation measures are devised and assigned information and risk scores, is collected
ownership along with implementation timelines. and recorded within the Group’s Risk
–The effectiveness of current activities and the Management System. The system applies
allocation of further activities is agreed by relevant an aggregation of risk impact/likelihood
Manage Risk Managers and Leadership Teams. scores and provides a standardised risk
–Decisions on how to manage the risks (including reporting suite which supports the risk
how to mitigate, transfer, accept or control risks) tracking and monitoring process. The
are based on a variety of considerations, including
Group risk register is reviewed biannually
risk score, the ability to influence or control the risk,
by the Group Risk Management
and cost and effectiveness of mitigation. Effective
Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial
mitigation activities can also be considered as cost
Officer, and subsequently reviewed
avoidance opportunities.
biannually by the Audit Committee and
annually by the Board. In addition,
functional, regional and DRBU risk registers
–Ongoing tracking, monitoring and reporting of (which also capture climate-related risk
climate-related risks is promoted through our factors) are reviewed on a biannual basis by
ERM Framework. applicable Leadership Teams and reviewed
–Risk mitigation activities are monitored by risk
biannually by the Corporate Audit
Monitor managers to help ensure the actions remain
Committee and Regional Audit
relevant and effective, and to confirm that
Committees, respectively.
information captured remains accurate and
up to date.
–The effectiveness of mitigation activities and the status
of outstanding actions is tracked and reviewed by
Leadership Teams and at various Risk Committees.
131
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
4 Metrics and Targets
We measure and track a wide range of Our Director, Operations, a member of the as described by target glidepaths. For
sustainability metrics and targets which Management Board, is responsible for the example, by the end of 2024 a reduction
help us assess and manage climate-related delivery of our climate-related targets as of 39.3% in BAT’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG
risks and opportunities. part of the overall sustainability agenda. emissions (versus 2020 baseline) was
The most important targets are externally required and a reduction of (42.6)% (versus
+ Read more about our sustainability
communicated and linked to evaluation 2020 baseline) was achieved, exceeding
Metrics and Targets on page 69
of the Director, Operations' performance the target threshold for this year. The
Our THR metrics and targets link to the and remuneration. Director, Operations met this performance
opportunities we have identified objective which contributed to their
+ Read more about the inclusion of a new
in products and services, while our climate eligibility for an annual bonus payment.
climate metric in the Group's Short-term
metrics and targets link both to the Incentive Plan on page 216
+ The value of the Company bonus plan is
opportunities identified in ‘Energy Sourcing
tied to non-environmental metrics set out
and Efficiency’ and to our transition and The Director, Operations' performance in the current Remuneration Policy
physical risks. The latter are particularly objectives contain environmental targets, described on page 227
important to our climate targets, as outlined which are directly linked to their assessment
in 'Our Path to Net Zero GHG emissions of performance alongside other non- Climate-related metrics and targets
by 2050' below, as inaction would result environmental performance objectives and We have set near-term 2030 1.5ºC-aligned,
in product shortfalls. other factors. The Director, Operations' absolute reduction targets that
eligibility for an annual bonus under the accommodate Net Zero GHG criteria and
+ Read more about our climate-related Group’s International Executive Incentive definitions. In 2022, the SBTi introduced the
risks and opportunities on pages 124
Scheme (IEIS) plan is based on their first FLAG target-setting guidance to assist
to 129
performance assessment. companies in land-intensive sectors with
Remuneration The Group’s GHG emissions and energy establishing science-based targets that
encompass land-based emissions and
From 2025, a climate metric will be reduction targets are examples of
removals. As a result, in 2024, we submitted
introduced into the Group's Short-Term environmental metrics contained within
near-term 2030 Industrial / Non-FLAG and
Incentive Plan, linking compensation of the Director, Operations' performance
FLAG Scope 3 emissions targets to the SBTi
Executive Directors and wider employees objectives. The threshold for success is
alongside our long-term Net Zero target.
with the decarbonisation of our operations. achieving or exceeding yearly targets,
Breakdown of BAT's GHG Emissions
1 Scope 1
7.42
Scope 2
Scope 3
Total million tonnes of CO e Scope 3 biogenic
2
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 (mn tCOe)
2
FY20 0.342 0.199 5.882 2.494
FY21 0.325 0.170 6.198 1.968
FY22 0.329 0.113 6.155 1.263
FY23 0.299 0.095 5.479 1.580
Note:
1. 2023 numbers.
132
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
4 Metrics and Targets continued
Understanding Scope 1, 2 and 3 subnational, or national boundaries; Scope 3 biogenic emissions:
emissions or ‘market-based' - which uses a CO 2 emissions from the combustion
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are categories quantification method based on GHG or biodegradation of biomass.
of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions an emissions emitted by the generators from Biomass:
organisation's activities create. which the reporter contractually purchases Any material or fuel produced by
Scope 1 emissions: electricity bundled with instruments, or biological processes of living organisms,
Direct emissions occur from sources unbundled instruments on their own. including organic non-fossil material of
owned or controlled by an organisation. Scope 3 emissions: biological origin (e.g., plant material),
Scope 3 emissions are all indirect biofuels (e.g., liquid fuels produced from
Scope 2 emissions:
emissions (not included in Scope 2) that biomass feedstocks), biogenic gas
Indirect emissions are generated from
occur in the value chain of the reporting (e.g. landfill gas), and biogenic waste
purchased electricity, heat, steam or
organisation, including both upstream and (e.g. municipal solid waste from
cooling. These can be ‘location-based’ -
downstream emissions and excluding biogenic sources).
which uses a quantification method based
biogenic emissions.
on average energy generation emission
factors for defined locations, including local,
Our Path to Net Zero GHG Emissions by 2050
Our Climate Targets
50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 What are FLAG emissions?
GHG emissions by 20301
(versus 2020 baseline) FLAG emissions are greenhouse gas Since mid-2023, SBTi have required
emissions from activities in the forest, companies to account for their land-
30.3% reduction in Scope 3
land, and agriculture (FLAG) sector. They based emissions and set separate FLAG
Flag GHG emissions and 42%
include a wide range of emissions from targets if relevant to their activities. BAT
absolute reduction in Industrial activities that occur on-farm and submitted FLAG emissions reduction
(non-FLAG) GHG emissions upstream, such as the manufacture targets to SBTi in 2024 for validation.
by 20301 (submitted to SBTi of fertilisers. According to the SBTi,
for validation as 1.5°C aligned they account for almost a quarter
of global emissions.
in September 2024)
Net Zero GHG emissions in our
Land Use Change Land Management
value chain by 2050 (submitted
to SBTi for validation as 1.5°C
aligned in September 2024)
50% total renewable energy
use by 2030
FLAG
20% of suppliers by spend
to set Science-Based Targets Forest, land
by 2025 and agriculture
Carbon Removals Carbon Storage
Note:
1. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030 science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions
target includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG
emissions target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating Scope 3
data from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting.
133
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
4 Metrics and Targets continued
How we intend to reduce How we intend to reduce Understanding different GHG
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions1 Scope 3 GHG emissions1 emissions-related terminology
Creating site-specific Building a climate-resilient Net Zero GHG emissions: This means
reducing greenhouse gas emissions to
decarbonisation roadmaps supply chain with direct and
as close to zero as possible, with any
and investing in energy indirect suppliers.
remaining emissions re-absorbed from
efficiency projects and the atmosphere, by, for example, oceans
management systems. Eliminating the remaining and forests. Setting corporate Net Zero
use of coal for tobacco curing; targets aligned with meeting societal
Increasing renewable energy using sustainable curing fuels climate goals means: (a) reducing
use by entering into longer- (e.g. sustainable wood fuel, Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions to zero or a
residual level consistent with reaching
term power purchase agricultural waste).
Net Zero emissions at the global or
agreements and investing
sector level in 1.5°C scenarios or sector
in on-site renewable energy Fostering circularity pathways; and (b) neutralising any
generation projects. in our value chain. residual emissions by the Net Zero
target date – and continuing to
Rolling out electric and hybrid neutralise any GHG emissions released
vehicles in our fleet. into the atmosphere thereafter.
Designing for the reuse
Near-term science based target:
and recycling of end-of-life
GHG reduction targets in line with
products. what the latest climate science deems
necessary to limit warming to 1.5°C above
Increasing the use of low pre-industrial levels to be achieved within a
5-10 year time frame from the date of
carbon materials.
submission to the SBTi.
Long-term science-based target:
GHG reduction targets in line with
what the latest climate science deems
is necessary to reach Net Zero at the
global or sector level in 1.5°C pathways
before 2050.
BAT’s 1.5°C-aligned Emissions Pathway
Emissions (mn tCOe)
2
Actual Scope 1 and 2 emissions Projected Scope 1 and 2 emissions Neutralisation
Actual Scope 3 non-FLAG emissions Projected Scope 3 non-FLAG emissions
Actual Scope 3 FLAG emissions Projected Scope 3 FLAG emissions
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Years 20 21 22 23 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Note:
1. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030 science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) GHG emissions target
includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end of life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions target
includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprised 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the complexity of consolidating and assuring Scope 3 data from
our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting.
134
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
4 Metrics and Targets continued
Reporting methodology While we account for the contribution of Data collection and validation
for CO 2 e emissions all seven GHG gases, carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), GHG emissions data for Scope 1 and 2
We use the World Business Council for methane (CH 4 ), nitrous oxide (N 2 O), is collected within our internal EHS
Sustainable Development GHG Protocol hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Reporting system; it includes 180 reporting
Corporate Standard to guide our reporting perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur units located across 85 countries.
o em f c i a ss rb io o n n s d . W iox e i d a e ls e o q u u s iv e a s le u n p t p ( o C r O tin 2 e g ) h (N e F xa 3 ) f , l u w o e r i d d o e n (S o F t 6 d ) i a s n c d lo n se it r t o h g e e b n r e tr a if k l d u o o w rid n e B pr A o T c ’ e s s S s c a o l p ig e n 3 s G w H ith G t e h m e i G ss H io G n P s r r o e t p o o c r o t l i ng
standards including: of CO 2 e data on an individual GHG basis. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
–GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, 2015 Baseline Accounting and Reporting Standard.
–GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Currently, we use a 2020 baseline year
+ Read more about our Scope 3 Simplified
(Scope 3) Standard, 2011 for emissions reporting, which comprises Methodology document at
Where we have operational control, we a total of 6,422,791 tCO 2 e split as follows: www.bat.com/sustainabilityreport
include emissions from energy use, the Dry –Scope 1: 342,034 tCOe
2 A full breakdown of our GHG emissions is
Ice Expanded Tobacco (DIET) production –Scope 2: 198,830 tCOe market-based
process, as well as fugitive emissions and (Scope 2: 417,572 tCO 2 e location-based) presented below.
process emissions from on-site 2
–Scope 3: 5,881,927 tCOe
wastewater and waste treatment in our 2
COe emissions reporting.
2
2024 BAT Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Total Emissions (Thousand Tonnes COe)
2
Emission Source 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
Total Scope 1 COe1,2 237 299 329 325 342
2
Total Scope 2 COe Market-based1 74 95 113 170 199
2
Total Scope 2 COe Location-based 325 342 356 393 418
2
Total Scope 3 COe3,4 N/A 5,479 6,155 6,198 5,882
2
Total Scope 3 Industrial (Non-FLAG) emissions N/A 4,997 5,534 5,471 5,306
Total Scope 3 FLAG emissions N/A 481 621 726 576
Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services (Total)4 N/A 3,563 4,088 4,188 3,953
Category 1: Purchased Goods N/A 1,768 1,981 1,973 1,970
Category 1: Purchased Services N/A 1,117 1,212 1,143 1,091
Category 1: Purchased Tobacco Leaf N/A 678 895 1,071 892
Category 2: Capital Goods N/A 81 140 142 172
Category 3: Fuel and Energy Related Emissions N/A 176 179 197 164
Category 4: Upstream Transportation and Distribution N/A 308 377 373 348
Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations N/A 3 5 8 9
Category 6: Business Travel N/A 87 33 19 18
Category 7: Employee Commuting N/A 62 71 75 67
Category 9: Downstream Transportation and Distribution N/A 16 19 22 21
Category 11: Use of Sold Products N/A 225 252 257 209
Category 12: End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products N/A 142 161 225 231
Category 14: Franchises N/A 1 1 1 5
Category 15: Investments N/A 815 828 691 685
Total Scope 3 Biogenic emissions N/A 1,580 1,780 1,968 2,494
Total Category 1 Biogenic emissions N/A 1,090 1,263 1,437 1,947
Total Category 11 Biogenic emissions N/A 491 517 531 547
Notes: 1. In 2024, UK-based activities included 2,180 tonnes of Scope 1 CO2e emissions (2023: 2,245) and 1 tonne of our Scope 2 CO2e emissions (2023: 0). Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions
intensity (tonnes per £m revenue) is 11.5 (2023: 13.3; 2022: 15.2). Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas (GHG) fugitive emissions result from the direct release to the atmosphere of GHG
compounds from various types of equipment and processes. 2. A category of Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas (GHG) fugitive emissions result from the direct release to the atmosphere
of GHG compounds from various types of equipment and processes. Our 2020 and 2021 Total Scope 1 CO2e GHG emissions do not include fugitive emissions as this data is not available.
3. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term 2030 science-based targets comprise a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) emissions target
includes purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, and end of life treatment of sold products. The Scope 3 FLAG emissions target
includes FLAG emissions and removals. Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprise 77% of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the target boundary, the FLAG / Non-FLAG GHG emissions
values in this table will not reconcile with Scope 3 target reporting. Due to the complexity of consolidating and assuring Scope 3 data from our suppliers and value chain, we report Scope 3
data one year behind other metrics. Refer to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full methodology: bat.com/reporting. 4. After submitting Scope 3 FLAG and Industrial (Non-FLAG) targets to
the SBTi for validation, we have restated our total Scope 3 GHG emissions and Scope 3 Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services for better comparability. Additionally, we have separated
reportable emissions from biogenic emissions and restated Category 11 Use of Sold Products. Methodology changes have led to adjustments in Category 4 Upstream Transportation and
Distribution, and Category 9 Downstream Transportation. This year, we have also reported Category 15 for the first time, including comparatives. For more details, please refer to BAT
'Reporting Criteria' at bat.com/reporting.
135
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TCFD Reporting
Continued
2024 GHG emissions performance Reporting methodology for energy
Our combined Scope 1 and 2 (market- Energy consumption is reported in line with Next steps
based) GHG emissions1 are decreasing year GRI 302 Energy (2016): ‘Disclosure 302-1,
on year. In 2024, we reduced our Scope 1 Energy consumption within the
and 2 GHG emissions by 21.2% compared organisation,’ which includes activities the Through the adoption of the TCFD
to 2023 (42.6% versus 2020 baseline). Group is responsible for as well as recommendations and making the
Scope 1 GHG emissions decreased by purchased electricity, steam and hot water. recommended disclosures, we have
20.8% compared to 2023 (30.7% versus Energy consumption is calculated from continued to analyse the resilience of
2020 baseline). raw data of fuel, electricity, hot water and our strategy against three potential
This is driven by energy efficiency activities, steam consumption, which is submitted climate scenarios and three time
a decrease in production output, an increase in by reporting units across the Group via our horizons up to 2050. This has helped
the use of renewable fuels and changes in Internal EHS Reporting system. us in mitigating risks, adapting to a
footprint in certain geographies. The data used in calculations are the same changing landscape, seeking new
opportunities and preparing for new
Scope 2 GHG emissions decreased by as used for Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 e emissions. regulations.
22.6% compared to 2023 (63.0% versus 2024 energy consumption performance
2020 baseline). While details of the principal measures We will continue to monitor the
evolving regulatory landscape,
This was driven by a decrease in total non- taken for the purpose of increasing energy
including any changes to the UK
renewable energy consumption, energy efficiency across the Group are available
Listing Rules in relation to the
efficiency activities and an increase in on- on pages 82-83, our energy consumption
adoption of the International
site renewable electricity generation, performance is outlined as follows:
Sustainability Standard Board (ISSB)
mostly from solar technologies. –Energy consumption3 from activities for standards and the adoption of EU
While our targets cover Scope 2 market- which the Group is responsible (in million CSRD in Europe. We will update our
based emissions, we also measure and kWh): 2024: 1,135; 2023: 1,292; 2022: 1,435. approach to our climate-related
report Scope 2 location-based emissions Of the total figure reported for the Group disclosures accordingly.
as per the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. for 2024, 10 million kWh is from UK-
Scope 2 location-based emissions based activities (2023: 10 million kWh,
decreased by 5% compared to 2023 (22.3% 2022: 11 million kWh).
versus 2020 baseline). –Energy consumption resulting from the
Our total Scope 32 GHG emissions purchase of energy by the Group for its
decreased by 11% compared to 2022 (6.9% own use (in million kWh): 2024: 861;
versus 2020 baseline). This was driven by 2023: 890; 2022: 909. Of the total figure
continued optimisation of the tobacco reported for the Group for 2024, 13
curing process, increasing the use of million kWh is from UK-based activities
renewable fuels in tobacco curing and (2023: 13 million, 2022: 15 million).
reducing the carbon intensity of other
+ Read more about our
materials. sustainability metrics and targets
in our Sustainability Performance
Data Book at bat.com/reporting
2024 energy consumption performance
2024 2023 2022
mkWh mkWh mkWh
Energy consumption3 from activities Notes:
for which the Group is responsible 1,135 1,292 1,435
1. Compared to a 2020 baseline. Our near-term
–from UK-based activities 10 10 11
2030 science-based targets comprise a 50%
Energy consumption resulting from reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.
2. The Scope 3 Industrial (non-FLAG) emissions
the purchase of energy by the Group target includes purchased goods and services,
for its own use 861 890 909 upstream transportation and distribution, use of
sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold
–from UK-based activities 13 13 15 products. The Scope 3 FLAG emissions target
includes FLAG emissions and removals.
Combined, these Scope 3 targets comprise 77%
of Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Due to the
GHG emissions from UK-based activities complexity of consolidating and assuring Scope 3
data from our suppliers and value chain, we report
2024 2023 2022 Scope 3 data one year behind other metrics. Refer
Scope 1 (tonnes of COe emissions) 2,180 2,245 2,376 to the BAT 'Reporting Criteria' for our full
2 methodology: bat.com/reporting.
Scope 2 (tonnes of COe emissions) 1 0 10 3. Energy intensity (GWh per £ million of revenue):
2
2024: 0.077; 2023: 0.080: 2022: 0.085
Scope 1 and 2 COe emissions intensity
2
(tonnes per £m revenue) 11.5 13.3 15.2
136
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
TNFD Reporting
A summary of our response to the Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
(TNFD) recommendations is set out below.
BAT is one of the Early Adopters of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) recommendations, making this set of
voluntary disclosures. Below is a summary of our current progress towards the recommended TNFD disclosures that we consider the
most relevant at this stage. We will continue to build on our current reporting and develop how we disclose nature-related information.
TNFD at a glance: Summary of our response
1 Governance
Disclose the organisation’s governance of nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities
a) Describe the board’s oversight of nature-related Our Board has oversight of our nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and + Read more
dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities. opportunities (DIROs) through the review of our environmental strategy, targets on pages 114
and performance twice per year and the Group risk register, which includes nature- and 121
related risks, on an annual basis. Our TCFD and TNFD governance disclosures are
combined and available in this report.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and Management is responsible for identifying and assessing nature-related DIROs. + Read more
managing nature-related dependencies, impacts, Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage our DIROs and progress on pages 114
risks and opportunities. against those plans is monitored. and 121
c) Describe the organisation’s human rights policies We manage our impacts through due diligence and remediation programmes, + Read more
and engagement activities, and oversight by the underpinned by our policies, such as the SoBC and SCoC. We engage with on page 139
board and management, with respect to Indigenous communities where we operate through Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)
Peoples, Local Communities, affected and other and supplier footprint. However, we have not performed an analysis on indigenous
stakeholders, in the organisation’s assessment of, peoples yet. We have therefore chosen to exclude Recommended Disclosure
and response to, nature-related dependencies, Governance C from the scope of this TNFD report and aim to enhance it in future
impacts, risks and opportunities. reporting cycles.
2 Strategy
Disclose the effects of nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities on the organisation’s business model, strategy
and financial planning where such information is material
a) Describe the nature-related dependencies, impacts, We estimate that 26% of the 91 different economic activities in our supply chain + Read more
risks and opportunities the organisation has identified are likely to be dependent on nature. Our largest potential impact on nature is our on pages 140
over the short, medium and long term. footprint, the largest proportion of which is in our tobacco supply chain. to 146
b) Describe the effect nature-related dependencies, As of today, we have not assessed the impact of our potential DIROs on our + Read more
impacts, risks and opportunities have had on the strategy and financial planning. However, our approach to managing nature-related on pages 116
organisation’s business model, value chain, strategy impacts across our value chain is outlined in a set of Group policies, guidelines and 117
and financial planning, as well as any transition plans and standards, which can be found in this report.
or analysis in place.
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s As part of our climate scenario analysis outlined in our TCFD disclosure, we understand + Read more
strategy to nature-related risks and opportunities, the ways climate-related physical risks may also impact nature and our business. on pages 124
taking into consideration different scenarios. As of today, we have not performed a specific financial nature scenario analysis. and 141
d) Disclose the locations of assets and/or activities We consider priority locations to be those areas that are “important for + Read more
in the organisation’s direct operations and, where biodiversity” or “of high-water priority”. Based on our Biodiversity Risk Assessment on pages 147
possible, upstream and downstream value chain(s) 3,483 farms (3.9%) in our tobacco supply chain, 17 sites in our own operations, to 148
that meet the criteria for priority locations. and 16 sites in our non-tobacco supply chain were identified as priority locations.
3 Risk and impact management
Describe the process used by the organisation to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor nature-related dependencies, impacts,
risk and opportunities
a i) Describe the organisation’s processes While we have not always explicitly used the terminology of TNFD’s Locate, Evaluate, + Read more
for identifying, assessing and prioritising nature- Assess and Prepare (LEAP), similar principles have informed our actions. In line with on page 150
related dependencies, impacts, risks and the LEAP, we we have begun to locate our interfaces, evaluated our dependencies
opportunities in its direct operations. and impacts on nature, and assessed our nature-related risks and opportunities
a ii) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying, We adopted the SBTN’s mitigation hierarchy methodology and other datasets to + Read more
assessing and prioritising nature-related identify, assess and prioritise potential nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks on page 150
dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities and opportunities in our direct operations.
in its upstream and downstream value chain(s).
b) Describe the organisation’s processes We identify and capture nature-related risks and opportunities on our risk + Read more
for monitoring nature-related dependencies, registers. We have a set of nature-related commitments that we track and report on page 150
impacts, risks and opportunities. against annually. We intend to revise our approach in the future.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, Our processes are integrated across the Group as part of our Risk Management + Read more
prioritising and monitoring nature-related risks are Framework, including biannual reviews of the Group risk register by our Group Risk on page 150
integrated into and inform the organisation’s overall Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Group risk
risk management processes. register is reviewed annually by the Board and twice per year by the Audit Committee.
4 Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage material nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to We have a set of metrics for each of our sustainability focus areas, including + Read more
assess and manage material nature-related risks nature, against which we report on our performance and progress each year. on pages 151
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk to 152
management process.
b) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess We have a set of metrics for each of our sustainability focus areas, including + Read more on
and manage dependencies and impacts on nature. nature, against which we report on our performance and progress each year. pages 151 to 152
c) Describe the targets and goals used by the We have a range of existing targets which help us manage our potential DIROs. + Read more
organisation to manage nature-related These are: Deforestation and Conversion Free tobacco supply chain; Deforestation on pages 89
dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities Free pulp and paper supply chain; Forest Positive in our tobacco supply chain;
and its performance against these. 35% reduction in water withdrawn; and 100% operation sites AWS certified.
137
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
The TNFD framework consists of a set of general
requirements and recommended disclosures.
Application of materiality
Table 1: Methods used to conduct dependency and impact assessments
We acknowledge the impact that our
for each value chain component
business has on nature as highlighted by
our 2023 Group-wide Double Materiality Assessment Method Value Chain Component
Assessment^. Based on our assessment of Dependency ENCORE (2018) Direct operations; Tobacco supply
our impact and financial materiality, we are assessment chain; Non-tobacco procured goods
aware that the degradation of nature may and services
also impact the resilience of our value Land occupancy The Biodiversity Direct operations;
chain. These impacts will be quantified footprint Consultancy’s (TBC) Tobacco supply chain
though our CSRD-aligned Double Biodiversity, Extent,
Materiality Assessment for EU CSRD Condition (BECs)
reporting in 2026, in relation to year-end framework
Life Cycle EXIOBASE Non-tobacco procured goods
2025.
Assessment and services
+ See the Double Materiality Assessment
Geospatial risk TBC’s Biodiversity Risk Direct operations; Tobacco supply
on pages 70 to 71 for further information
assessment Screening Kit (BRiSK) chain; Non-tobacco procured goods
We used the TNFD’s Locate, Evaluate, and services
Assess and Prepare (LEAP) due diligence
approach to assess our nature-related
DIROs. This approach helps identify both
impact materiality (at the end of the
Map 1: Where our supply chain interacts with nature
'Evaluate' phase of LEAP) and financial
materiality (at the end of the 'Assess' phase Our value chain interacts with nature on a global scale. We highlight the locations
of LEAP). The LEAP approach has informed considered as part of our nature-related assessment under the Strategy section.
our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA).
Scope of disclosures
The information shared in this report covers
our own operations and upstream value
chain, the locations of which are represented
in the map on pages 138 and 139.
Own operations refers to all facilities within
BAT operational control that perform
manufacturing activities for commercial
purposes. These are cigarette
manufacturing factories, sites
manufacturing Other Tobacco Products,
snus, Modern Oral and flavoured e-liquids;
and green leaf threshing (GLT) tobacco
processing sites.
The upstream value chain includes both
our tobacco supply chain and non-tobacco
procured goods and services.
Our downstream value chain (warehousing
and distribution) has been excluded due to
the current lack of available data and
mature assessment methodologies.
Due to the data differences between value
chain components, we sought to
understand the nature-related DIROs
associated with each value chain
component using approaches best suited
to the available data.
Table 1 outlines the methods used to
conduct our value chain dependency and
impact assessments.
Note:
^ Although financial materiality has been considered in
the development of our Double Materiality Assessment
(DMA), our DMA and any conclusions in this document
as to the materiality or significance of sustainability
matters do not imply that all topics discussed therein
are financially material to our business taken as a whole,
and such topics may not significantly alter the total mix
of information available about our securities.
138
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Integration with other Time horizons considered Engagement with indigenous
sustainability-related disclosures The potential nature-related dependencies, peoples, local communities and
We recognise the importance of integrating impacts, risks and opportunities (DIROs) affected stakeholders
nature-related disclosures with other described in the TNFD section of this
We engage with local communities and
financial and sustainability disclosures for Report have not been modelled against
other affected stakeholders to support
a holistic and integrated approach. That is any time horizons or scenario analysis.
the assessment and management of our
why our TNFD disclosure has been included However, three time horizons were
nature-related DIROs.
in our 2024 Combined Annual and considered in our TCFD scenario analysis,
Sustainability Report and Accounts, which analysed how climate-related Our approach to human rights
alongside our TCFD disclosure, covering our physical risks in different scenarios may Our approach to managing human rights
climate-related governance, strategy, risks impact climate, nature and our business. is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles on
management, metrics and targets. These are: Business and Human Rights. Additionally,
we manage our impacts through due
–Short-term (up to 2030);
diligence and remediation programmes,
–Medium-term (up to 2040); and
underpinned by our policies, such as the
–Long-term (up to 2050). SoBC and SCoC.
+ Read more about our approach
to Human Rights on pages 102 to 107
Our water stewardship programmes
and engagement with local stakeholders
Our water withdrawal and discharge
guidelines and our Water Roadmap provide
strategic direction and guidance for
managing water use at our manufacturing
sites and help sites assess their water
management systems in line with the
Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)
certification process.
As part of our commitment to have 100%
of manufacturing sites certified against
the AWS standard, we consult with local
stakeholders to identify water-related
dependencies and impacts as well as
associated operational and supply chain
risks. This approach enables us to align
new water management and risk
mitigation actions with the interests of
residents within the local catchment area.
+ Read more about our water stewardship
programmes on pages 92 to 93
While we continue to engage with
communities where we operate, including
through the AWS, analysis on indigenous
peoples has not been carried out yet.
We have therefore chosen to exclude
Recommended Disclosure Governance C
from the scope of this TNFD report and
aim to enhance this section in future
reporting cycles.
Governance
Our Board and management’s oversight
of our nature-related DIROs is combined
within our TCFD disclosure.
+ Read more about our Sustainability
Governance on page 114
+ Read more about our
TCFD Governance on page 121
Note:
The assessment is conducted in the highlighted countries within BAT’s value chain
locations, and does not cover the entire highlighted area.
139
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy
Nature-related dependencies, Our business operations, including While we have not explicitly used the
impacts, risks and opportunities conventional agricultural practices, rely on terminology of TNFD’s Locate, Evaluate,
the use of natural resources, such as forest Assess and Prepare (LEAP), similar
identified over the short, medium
products, soil and water. Activities such as principles have informed our actions.
and long term.
raw material sourcing, tobacco farming, For instance, our initial Biodiversity Risk
Our purpose to build A Better Tomorrow™, and water withdrawals for agricultural Assessments (2022) focused on identifying
our Group strategy as well as our activities and manufacturing can negatively and assessing impacts in our tobacco
sustainability focus areas, including Nature, impact the environment. Thus, we strive to supply chain. Below, in line with the LEAP
are set out in this Report. manage our nature-related DIROs to framework, we explain how we have begun
preserve nature and improve our resilience. to locate our interfaces with nature,
+ Read more about Group Strategy
on page 12 and Sustainability Strategy evaluated our dependencies and impacts
on pages 66 and 67 on nature, and assessed our nature-related
risks and opportunities.
Enables organisations to filter and prioritise
Locate potential nature-related dependencies, impacts,
risks and opportunities.
L
Guided by: We conducted location-specific land
–Span of the business model footprint analyses (BECS), biodiversity
and value chain risk assessments (BRiSK) in order to
–Dependency and impact screening identify priority locations as well as
–Interface with nature sectoral screening of economic activities
(ENCORE) to identify priority activities.
Enables organisations to develop an understanding
Evaluate of their potentially material dependencies and impacts
on nature.
E
Guided by: We used ENCORE to identify possible
–Identification of environmental assets, dependencies and related pathways.
ecosystem services and impact drivers We applied the BECS framework for
–Identification and measurement of impacts in our Direct Operations and a
dependencies and impacts Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach
–Determination of impact materiality for our non-tobacco supply chain.
Enables organisations to understand which
Assess nature-related risks and opportunities are material
and should be disclosed.
A
Guided by: We assessed our impact and financial
–Risk and opportunity identification materiality through our DMA and
–Existing risk mitigation and conducted climate scenario modelling
management as part of our TCFD disclosure.
–Risk and opportunity prioritisation
–Determination of financial materiality
Enables organisations to decide on their response and
Prepare disclosure to the material nature-related interactions
identified in the LEAP approach.
P
Guided by: We have a set of nature-related
–Strategy and resource allocation commitments that we track and report
–Target setting and performance against annually. As we define our
management material nature-related DIROs, we will
–Reporting revise our approach to manage them.
–Presentation
140
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
Summary of our potential nature-related dependencies, impacts, The effect nature-related
risks and opportunities dependencies, impacts, risks
The table below summarises our potential DIROs, which have been identified by using the and opportunities have had
methodology described in Table 1 on page 138 and in the Strategy section between pages
on the organisation’s business
142 and 146 of our TNFD disclosure.
model, value chain, strategy and
financial planning
Table 2: Potential Nature-related dependencies, impacts risks
We have not yet fully completed the
and opportunities summary table
“Assess” phase of the LEAP approach to
Dependencies determine the financial impact materiality
Structural and biotic integrity of our DIROs on our strategy and financial
planning. However, our approach to
Land geomorphology
managing nature-related impacts across
Soils and sediments our value chain is outlined in a set of Group
Species policies, guidelines and standards, which can
be found on pages 116 and 117 of this report.
Atmosphere
Strategy resilience on nature-
Water
related risks and opportunities
Impact drivers
We understand the importance of
Land/sea use and land use change
managing nature-related DIROs to support
Resource exploitation organisational decision-making and foster
resilience in our value chain.
Climate change
As part of our TCFD report, we have
Pollution
updated our scenario analysis and included
Impacts the ways in which physical risks may
Biodiversity loss impact nature and our business across
three of the scenarios (1.5°C, 2°C, 3-4°C).
Risks
We also describe the relevant mitigations
Physical risks (chronic)
for identified risks. Page 124 of the TCFD
–Dependencies on provisioning services
section describes the resilience of our
–Dependencies on regulating and maintenance services
organisation’s strategy in relation to
Physical risks (acute) climate and nature risks and opportunities.
–Dependencies on the regulation of natural hazards While we acknowledge the importance
Transition risks of understanding nature-related risks
–Dependencies on nature-related legal liabilities and opportunities over the short, medium
–Dependencies on the nature-related regulations and long-term, we have not conducted a
separate financial nature scenario analysis
Opportunities
to complement our current climate
Resource efficiency scenario analysis to date. However, we plan
to do so in accordance with TNFD’s
Ecosystem protection, restoration and regeneration
guidance in the future.
+ Read more about our Climate scenario
analysis on pages 124 to 129
141
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
Dependencies As a result of this screening, we concluded
As part of the Locate and Evaluate phase of that our tobacco supply chain contains the
the LEAP approach, we used the ENCORE1 highest proportion of economic activities
(Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, that are highly dependent on at least one
Risks and Exposure) database (2018) to Ecosystem Component due to its
conduct a sectoral-level screening of association with agricultural activities2.
91 economic activities (ISIC Level 4) in our This is followed by our pulp and paper
own operations, tobacco supply chain and supply chain.
non-tobacco procured goods and services We have consolidated the identified
to identify potential high dependencies potential dependencies and summarised
on nature. them in Table 3.
Table 3: Sectoral level of screening of economic activities conducted using ENCORE
Value chain ENCORE materiality score
component Economic activity per ecosystem component
142
tceriD
snoitarepo occaboT
niahc
ylppus
sdoog
derucorP
secivres
dna
ISIC3 level 4 description
dna
larutcurtS
ytirgetni
citoib dnaL
ygolohpromoeg
dna
slioS
stnemides seicepS
erehpsomtA
retaW
2 Strategy continued
26% of the 91 economic activities
screened were associated with “High”
or “Very High” dependencies on nature
(Table 3).
“Water”, “Structural and Biotic
Integrity” and “Species” were the
natural Ecosystem components most
commonly scored as being dependent
upon across all economic activities by BAT.
Very high Low This table summarises only the economic activities associated with “High” or “Very
high” dependencies on at least one Ecosystem Component and associated value chain
High Very low component1,4. Where there were multiple scores for an economic activity, the highest
Medium ND: No data score was used.
a a Support activities for crop production n n n n n n
a Growing of tobacco n n n n n n
a Logging n n n n n n
a Post-harvest crop activities n n n n n n
a Seed processing for propagation n n n n n n
a a Silviculture and other forestry activities n n n n n n
a Support services to forestry n n n n n n
a a Electric power generation, transmission and distribution n n n n n n
a a Manufacture of tobacco products n n n n n n
a Other transportation support activities n n n n n n
a Real estate activities with own or leased property n n n n n n
a Steam and air conditioning supply n n n n n n
a Courier activities n n n n n n
a Freight air transport n n n n n n
a Freight rail transport n n n n n n
a Manufacture of gas; distribution of gaseous fuels through mains n n n n n n
a Manufacture of other chemical products not elsewhere classified n n n n n n
a Manufacture of other food products not elsewhere classified n n n n n n
a Manufacture of paints, varnishes and similar coatings, printing ink and mastics n n n n n n
a Manufacture of plastics products n n n n n n
a Manufacture of pulp, paper and paperboard n ND n n n n
a Plant propagation n n n n n n
a Sea and coastal freight water transport n ND n n n n
a Travel agency activities n n n n n n
Notes:
1. ENCORE is used to evaluate the likely critical dependencies on natural capital assets which BAT depends on a five-point rating scale of Very high, High, Medium, Low and Very low.
Scores range from 0 (no impact/dependency) to 5 (very high impact or dependency). (encorenature.org)
2. Agriculture was found to be the second largest sector that is highly dependent on nature: WEF_New_Nature_Economy_Report_2020.pdf (weforum.org)
3. The International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) is a United Nations industry classification system.
4. Due to no high or very high dependencies being associated, minerals and ocean geomorphology ecosystem components have been excluded from our disclosure.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
Our ENCORE sectoral-level screening also
Ecosystem components: Specific elements within nature that provide the goods
highlighted the dependency pathways for
and services upon which the economy depends, including atmosphere, land
key ecosystem services upon our tobacco
geomorphology, minerals, ocean geomorphology, soils and sediments, species,
supply chain and manufacturing (as well as
structural and biotic integrity, and water.
the cultivation of non-tobacco agricultural
products) as outlined in Table 4. Structural and biotic integrity: The extent of physical structure and composition
of an ecosystem falling within its natural range of variation. These structural
characteristics, such as canopy height and vegetation density, underpin the
ecosystem services.
Species: Species includes plants, animals, fungi, algae and genetic resources, which
can be wild or domestic/commercial, for example livestock. Like habitats, species
underpin a wide range of ecosystem services.
Table 4: How our business activities depend on ecosystem services
Type of ecosystem
service Ecosystem service Dependency pathways for our business activities
Provisioning Biomass Biomass provisioning services support the growth of crops and agricultural products.
services provisioning We utilise these services for the cultivation of tobacco and other agricultural products,
such as wood for fuel, pulp, and paper used in cigarettes and packaging materials.
Water supply While not as significant as our agricultural supply chain, water is used in a number of our
manufacturing and tobacco processing activities.
Regulating and Water Different species of plants and animals support the restoration and maintenance of surface
maintenance purification water and groundwater bodies by breaking down and removing potentially harmful nutrients
services and pollutants, and facilitating a supply of clean water. Water is a necessary input for growing
crops as well as for manufacturing processes. Without a clean water supply, an additional water
treatment would be required which would increase the operating costs.
Rainfall pattern Vegetation, particularly forests, plays a crucial role in sustaining rainfall patterns through
regulation the process of evapotranspiration, which recycles moisture back into the atmosphere. This
mechanism is essential for providing freshwater necessary for the irrigation of tobacco and
other agricultural products, as well as for maintaining surface water bodies used by our facilities.
Local and Healthy ecosystems are understood to help sequester carbon by regulating atmospheric
global climate and ocean chemical compositions. The vegetation can also contribute to the regulation
regulation of temperature, for example, cooling provided by urban trees. Local and global climate
regulation helps maintain suitable growing conditions for tobacco.
Soil and The stabilising effect of vegetation prevents soil loss, for example, by limiting the impacts
sediment of severe weather events and agricultural activities. The retention of soil and sediments
retention helps maintain growing conditions for tobacco and other agricultural products.
Soil quality Healthy ecosystems contribute to maintaining soil quality, specifically aiding the fertility
regulation and living components of soil, which are important for tobacco yields. High-quality soil also
enables better water retention, which can reduce flooding or mitigate the adverse effects
of drought on crop yields.
Flood Coastal protection services, for instance coral reefs, sand banks, dunes or mangrove
mitigation ecosystems along the shore, mitigate the impacts of tidal surges or storms on local
services communities. This is particularly important for eight of our factories located in areas with
coastal flood risk. River flood mitigation services, such as riparian vegetation, provide
structure and a physical barrier to high water levels and thus mitigates the impacts of
floods on local communities. River flood mitigation services will be supplied together with
peak flow mitigation services. This is particularly important for 24 of our factories located
in areas with high river flood risk.
143
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy continued
Impacts Therefore, BAT’s contributions to these We are currently collecting water use and
According to Intergovernmental Science- impact drivers warrant consideration as pollution data for our direct operations and
Policy Platform on Biodiversity and part of a holistic approach to upstream supply chain in order to better
Ecosystem Service (ISPPBES), the five main understanding our impacts. understand our impact on water discharge.
drivers of biodiversity loss globally are: Land use and land use changes due to Climate change also contributes to
agriculture have been recognised as the biodiversity loss; however, we address this
Land/sea use/change,
primary driver of biodiversity loss globally. separately in our TCFD disclosure.
Resource exploitation, This is why we conducted BECS and LCA Table 5 is a summary of potential impacts
assessments to understand possible land we have identified and assessed based on
Climate change, use footprint impacts within our supply the relationship between different impact
Pollution, and chain. Water use (a type of resource drivers and our business operations.
exploitation) can also threaten the healthy
Invasive species. functioning of aquatic ecosystems, while
pollution due to the use of pesticides,
herbicides and other agrochemicals can
degrade soils, cause direct mortality of
organisms due to ecotoxicity, and
contaminate downstream ecosystems
due to run-off.
Table 5: Impact drivers that can lead to changes in natural capital
Land/Sea use and land use change The cultivation of tobacco, the supply of pulp and paper, and our operations all affect
land use.
Resource exploitation Consumption of water to grow tobacco in our tobacco supply chain and consumption
of water to manufacture our products in our direct operations.
Climate change Climate change impacts are described separately in our TCFD disclosures on page 120
to 136 of this report.
Pollution The application of fertiliser to agricultural crops in our tobacco supply chain and the discharge
of treated water from our manufacturing sites.
Tobacco supply chain The assessment provides us with the BECS provides an estimate of the area of
As part of the Locate and Evaluate phase amount of land used for tobacco cultivation land used for production (extent) and the
of the LEAP approach, in 2024, we and the estimated impact, using a metric estimated amount of biodiversity lost on
re-assessed the land occupancy footprint called ‘Mean Species Abundance that occupied land relative to a pristine
of our tobacco supply chain using the Hectares’ (Table 6). reference state (condition) due to the type
Biodiversity Extent, Condition and and intensity of land use.
Significance (BECS) framework, developed The countries with the largest footprint are
by The Biodiversity Consultancy. Brazil, Bangladesh, Pakistan, India and U.S.
In line with the re-assessment, the land
occupancy footprint data has been
updated. It now covers tobacco specific
land occupancy, hence the decrease in the Table 6: Direct and Third-Party Suppliers estimated land occupancy footprint
footprint occupancy metric compared to Area (ha) Impact (MSA ha)
our TNFD disclosure in our 2023 Combined
Direct Suppliers 128,000 115,000
Annual and Sustainability Report, in relation
to year-end 2024. Third-Party Suppliers 49,500 44,000
Total 177,500 159,000
Figure 1: Biodiversity Extent, Condition, and Significance (BECS) framework
Extent Condition Significance Biodiversity Land
Occupancy Footprint
The The quantity The ‘value’ of the
geographical or the amount biodiversity, represented by
area, or volume of biodiversity ‘types’ of biodiversity present
of habitat present and how significant their
loss would be globally
144
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Figure 2. Top 10 manufacturing sites by physical land footprint
20
19%
15
10 10%
8%
7% 7%
6%
5 5%
3%
2% 2%
0
145
ellivoccaboT
-
SU
zurC
atnaS
- lizarB
aidnalrebU
- lizarB
cnalbasaC
- elihC
ellivskralC
- SU
grebledieH
- acirfA
htuoS
nosmaS
- eyikrüT
gnalaM
- aisenodnI
aicnelaV
- aleuzeneV
nadabI
-
airegiN
2 Strategy continued
Direct Operations
As part of the Locate and Evaluate phase
of the LEAP approach, we conducted a
BECS analysis of our own manufacturing
sites in 2022, using location data in the
form of point coordinates, total area of the
sites (hectares), and area radius around
each site (hectares).
The land occupancy footprint of our direct
operations is estimated as 1,073.5 MSA.ha
by using the BECS methodology.
The extent of physical land occupied by
our manufacturing sites was estimated
at 1,130 ha with the top 10 sites shown
in figure 2 representing 69%.
Non-tobacco procured goods Figure 3. Estimated annual impacts on biodiversity per pressure
and services and procurement category expressed as species.year
As footprint data is not available, we
estimated the impacts on nature in our
Water
non-tobacco procured goods and services
using an LCA-based approach in 2023. Consumption
This approach estimates the extent
and severity of impacts by feeding BAT’s
Pollution
estimated annual spend or volumes
purchased per sector and country into
EXIOBASE, which translates resource
extractions and emissions into Climate
environmental impact scores using LCA Change
conversion factors.
The results are expressed in a standard Land
biodiversity impact metric called Use
‘species.years’, which allows us to compare
the magnitude of different pressures in a
0% 20% 40% 60%
common unit.
The analysis revealed that within our Direct suppliers
non-tobacco procured goods and services,
land use is the primary impact driver for Indirect suppliers
biodiversity loss, accounting for 74% of Purchased New Categories
estimated impacts, followed by climate
change at 18% (Figure 3).
In this analysis, pulp and paper was
identified as a key supply chain, estimated
to account for 70% of the total non-tobacco
procured goods and services footprint.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy continued
The TNFD defines1 nature-related risks Nature-related opportunities are defined In line with TNFD definitions, we have
as all “potential threats posed to an as1 “activities that create positive identified a number of potential risks
organisation linked to their and wider outcomes for organisations and nature and opportunities, as part of the Assess
society’s dependencies on nature and by creating positive impacts on nature or phase of the LEAP approach, which are
nature impacts”. mitigating negative impacts on nature.” outlined below.
Table 7: Summary of BAT’s potential nature-related risks
Risk category Description of risk Realm
Physical risks Dependencies on provisioning services Freshwater,
(chronic) We rely on ecosystems to provide the natural raw materials required for our production, known Terrestrial
as provisioning services. Changes in these ecosystems can adversely affect these provisioning
services. The deterioration of relevant ecosystems may heighten the risks associated with obtaining
natural inputs such as tobacco, fuel wood, paper and freshwater, potentially affecting our supply
chain and reducing production capacity.
Dependencies on regulating and maintenance services Freshwater,
Ecosystems provide regulating and maintenance services, supporting the availability of natural Terrestrial
resources necessary for production. When ecosystems and species deteriorate, it may increase
risks relating to the supply of natural inputs, for example, due to reduced pollination services or
reduced pest control.
Physical risks Dependencies on the regulation of natural hazards Freshwater,
(acute) Ecosystems play a role in the prevention and mitigation of natural hazards. Changes in these Marine,
ecosystems, including the species we depend upon for regulating ecosystem services, can result Terrestrial
in changes to the flow of these services. This can be a particular problem in tobacco growing areas
that are at risk of increased flooding and drought events.
Transition risks Nature-related legal liabilities N/A
(liability) As the connection between business activities and nature-related impacts is increasingly
documented, we could become further exposed to nature-related liability risks, including fines
and penalties.
Transition risks Nature-related regulations Freshwater,
(regulation) Failure to address the nature-related impacts of detrimental activities in our value chain may lead Terrestrial
to external scrutiny and increased regulatory oversight. For instance, deforestation is a critical
nature-related concern for EU regulators, such as under the European Union Deforestation
Regulation (EUDR). Failure to comply with deforestation legislation in timber sourcing may result
in penalties.
Table 8: BAT’s nature-related opportunities
Opportunity
category Description of opportunity Realm
Resource To support the resilience of our farmer base, we develop tailored best practice techniques through Freshwater,
efficiency our Global Leaf Agronomy Development centre in Brazil and various local and regional partnerships. Terrestrial
The centre focuses on several key areas: soil science and plant nutrition, water management,
emissions, pest management, leaf breeding, seed technology, seed production and industrialisation,
mechanisation and curing crop protection, agrochemicals, agriculture best practice, substrates,
botanicals, bioprocess and leaf chemistry. These solutions are aimed at improving crop yields while
minimising the use of water, fertilisers and other harmful agrochemicals.
Ecosystem We can enhance our supply chain resilience by investing in the protection, conservation, restoration Terrestrial
protection, or sustainable management of ecosystems and/or species they depend on. For example, we are
restoration and helping farmers to implement regenerative agriculture practices. We can also invest in
regeneration infrastructure to support our supply chain while supporting nature-positive outcomes, such as
maintaining connectivity between and within ecosystems near operational sites or tobacco farms.
We also sponsor restoration activities at our sites and within communities where we operate.
Note:
1. For TNFD's definitions of nature-related risks and opportunities: tnfd.global/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/220321-TNFD-framework-beta-v0.1-FINAL.pdf.
146
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
Locations of assets and/or activities Methodology - Areas important Priority locations in our non-tobacco
in direct operations, and upstream for biodiversity supply chain
and downstream value chain(s) To identify “areas important for For our non-tobacco supply chain,
that meet the criteria for priority biodiversity”, and therefore sites with geolocation data was identified for 401 pulp
locations the highest priority for conservation and and paper processing locations.
sustainable management, we used the A buffer of 10 km was applied to each site
As part of the Locate phase (with an
following indicators: and priority locations were identified based
overlap to the Evaluate phase) of the LEAP
on biodiversity importance. The sites less
approach, we commissioned The The Species Threat Abatement and than 500m from World Heritage Sites,
Biodiversity Consultancy to conduct Restoration (STAR) metric. Alliance for Zero sites, sites within Key
geospatial Biodiversity risk assessments of
Areas of biodiversity importance Biodiversity Areas, Protected Areas, or
our direct operations (manufacturing sites),
as described in TNFD suggested areas where there are priority species or
directly contracted and third-party
datasets: proximity to World Heritage critical habitat present, or sites with a
farmers, as well as 35 mills and five
Sites, Alliance for Zero Extinction greater STAR score were identified as
chemical plants owned by suppliers in our
Sites, Protected Areas and Key priority locations. As a result, around
pulp and paper supply chain. We consider
Biodiversity Areas. 15 supplier sites in more than 10 countries
these our potentially “Material Locations”.
were identified as priority locations.
Presence of threatened species – this
The TNFD considers “Sensitive Locations”
includes identifying whether priority Priority locations in our direct
to be locations where an organisation’s
species are present at each location operations
value chain interfaces with ecologically
and whether an area may qualify as a For direct operations, priority locations
sensitive areas. We consider sensitive
Critical Habitat as determined by the were identified at manufacturing site level2.
locations to be those areas that are
IFC Performance Standard 6 A 5km buffer was applied to each site’s
“important for biodiversity” or “of high
criterion 1 or criterion 2. geo-coordinate and total site area
water priority”.
(hectares). 15 priority locations are
Priority locations in our tobacco identified based on following criteria:
supply chain whether the location's buffer is located
In our tobacco supply chain, priority within 5km from Alliance for Zero
locations were identified at farm level using Extinction or World Heritage sites, or
the following criteria. A 5 km buffer was located within less than 500m from Key
applied to each farm using the 2023 crop biodiversity or Protected areas, or has a
farmer base. Priority locations were STAR score greater than 10. In addition,
identified as those less than 500 m from 3 sites that were not identified as priority
Protected Areas or World Heritage Sites, locations based on the mentioned criteria
within Key Biodiversity Areas or the Alliance are identified for their possible restoration
for Zero Extinction; and/or with a STAR potential due to their larger physical size as
score over 10. As a result, 3,483 farms shown in Map 3.
(3.9%) were identified as priority locations
and can be found on the map below
(Map 2).
Notes:
1. Risk assessment conducted based on 2023 supplier footprint.
2. Assessment conducted in 2023 based on 2023 direct operations footprint.
147
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
2 Strategy continued
Map 2: Geographical map of BAT’s directly contracted farmers identified as priority locations
Priority Farms
America Asia
Europe South East Asia
Map 3: Priority locations within direct operations and priority location criteria met
Areas of biodiversity importance STAR Score
Physical Land Footprint STAR Score & Areas of biodiversity importance
America Africa Asia
Europe South East Asia
148
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2 Strategy continued
Water basins of high priority for nature
Water is a vital input to our direct operations
and tobacco supply chain.
We endeavour to manage the impacts of
water-use in our direct operations and
tobacco supply chain on surrounding water
bodies and related ecosystems.
This is why we have adopted SBTN’s
methodology to understand which priority
basins in our value chain are most affected
by freshwater withdrawal and quality
impacts.
To assess freshwater withdrawals, we
used the following indicators:
Water withdrawal data from our
tobacco supply chain and
manufacturing sites and SBTN’s
Water availability data (Hogeboom
model) to understand which basins
are not operating within sustainable
withdrawal limits.
STAR (Amphibians) and threatened
T
freshwater species to understand
biodiversity significance.
We have factored in both water quantity
and freshwater biodiversity, which led us
to identify a number of priority basins for
further action in Mexico, Indonesia, South
Africa, Bangladesh and Uzbekistan.
To assess freshwater quality impacts we
used the following indicators:
Fertiliser use data collected by our
tobacco supply chain and SBTN’s
sustainable nutrient concentration
at the basin level (using McDowell's
Model)
STAR (Amphibians) and threatened
T
freshwater species
We are evaluating our next steps in this area.
149
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
3 Risk Management
Processes for identifying, Impacts in Non-tobacco procured Processes for monitoring
assessing and prioritising nature- goods and services nature-related dependencies,
related dependencies, impacts We used an LCA-based approach to impacts, risks and opportunities.
estimate the overall impact on biodiversity
risks and opportunities in: (i) direct The Group applies a consistent
from our non-tobacco procured goods and
operations and (ii) upstream and methodology for assessing sustainability-
services. Internal procurement data
downstream value chain(s) including annual spend, and volume per related risks and opportunities, utilising
our Risk Management Framework.
Dependencies sector and country, was fed into an
As recommended in TNFD’s sector external database called EXIOBASE, from This process, as well as our Risk
guidance for food and agriculture, we used TNFD’s tools catalogue. This enabled us to assessment methodology, are outlined
the ENCORE database (2018) to identify estimate the environmental impacts within our TCFD disclosure.
the ecosystem components most associated with our resource consumption. In addition, we have a set of nature-related
dependent on economic activities across Risks and Opportunities commitments that we track and report
our value chain. ENCORE’s database Using the TNFD's risks and opportunities against annually.
provides a materiality score (“very low”
repository and dependency pathways that As we define our material nature-related
to “very high”) for each ecosystem
are identified through ENCORE, we have DIROs, we will revise our approach to
component based on the estimated degree
determined several potential nature- manage them.
of financial loss and estimated production
related risks and opportunities, namely:
loss incurred by disruptions to relevant Process for identifying, assessing,
ecosystem services1. –Physical and transition risks; and managing and monitoring nature-
However, it is important to note that –Resource efficiency and investment related risks into the organisation’s
ENCORE provides estimates on possible in restoration and regeneration overall risk management processes.
opportunities.
dependencies on ecosystem components
Identify
by BAT, but does not provide insight on These will be fed into our CSRD Double
likelihood or magnitude of risks on Materiality Assessment, which we intend Our Centre of Excellence (CoEs)
degradation of those ecosystem to disclose in 2026, in relation to year-end work with the Group Risk and
components. 2025 (Tables 7 and 8). Sustainability teams to identify
potential DIROs. Through
Impacts in Direct Operations and
stakeholder consultations,
Tobacco Supply Chain
Key results are expressed in the research, and assessments, they
We estimated land occupancy across our
following units of measurement: document potential threats and
direct operations and tobacco supply chain
vulnerabilities that could adversely
–The resulting land occupancy
using the BECS framework (Figure 1).
impact nature or our objectives,
footprint is expressed in Mean
informing the Group’s DMA.
Species Abundance hectares
(MSA.ha).
Assess
–The significance of these losses for
Nature-related risks are assessed
global biodiversity conservation is
for their potential impact, with
measured using IUCN’s STAR
scenarios generated and experts
metric.
consulted as appropriate.
–The STAR metric assesses how
specific actions at particular Manage
locations can contribute to global
Risk management activities and
biodiversity sustainability goals. It
responses are identified, with
measures the potential impacts of
mitigation measures assigned.
reducing threats and restoring
Internal specialists develop
habitats to decrease the risk of
processes, standards, and
species extinction, aiding in the
policies, which are adopted by
identification of effective actions
sustainability teams globally for
and quantifying their contributions
local implementation.
to preventing biodiversity loss.
Monitor
Targets, data points, and controls
are developed for monitoring. Risk
assessment scores are recorded
in the Group's Risk Management
System. The Group’s
sustainability risk register,
including nature-related risks, is
reviewed biannually by the Group
Risk Management Committee
and Audit Committee, and
annually by the Board.
+ Read more about our risk management
process in the TCFD section of this report
on page 130 and 131
Note:
1. ENCORE (encorenature.org)
150
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
4 Metrics and Targets
Indicators and metrics help the identification and assessment
of nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities (DIROs)
TNFD uses recommended metrics and targets to provide a standardised framework for
organisations to disclose their nature-related DIROs. The following section provides a selection
of key existing metrics which demonstrates how we currently assess, manage, and measure
our DIROs. The reporting methodology for these metrics is outlined on page 152.
Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess and manage dependencies and impacts on nature
Table 9: Our disclosures against TNFD’s core global dependency and impact metrics for direct operations, tobacco
supply chain and non-tobacco procured goods and services
Non-tobacco
Tobacco procured goods
Category Indicator Metric Direct operations supply chain and services
Land/ Total spatial footprint Estimated total surface area1 1,190 ha 177,500 ha
freshwater/
Extent of land/freshwater/ Total surface area of forests 131.6 ha
ocean-use
ocean ecosystem planted and for conservation
change
conserved or restored and for Forest Positive
Wastewater discharged Total volume of water discharged 1.29 mn m3
Volume of water discharged into 0.18 mn m3
freshwater
Volume of water discharged into 0.004 mn m3
brackish surface water/seawater
Volume of water discharged into 0.016 mn m3
groundwater
Volume of water discharged into 1.1 mn m3
third-party destinations
Resource use/ Water withdrawal and Total water withdrawn 2.73 mn m3
replenishment consumption from areas Total water withdrawn from Water 1.06 mn m3
of water stress
Stress areas
Quantity of high-risk natural % of wood used in Thrive Supply 98.5%
commodities sourced from Chain1 with deforestation and
land/ ocean/ freshwater conversion free (DCF) status
% of wood used by our directly 100%
contracted farmers for tobacco curing
to be from sustainable wood sources
% of pulp and paper materials 86.3%
sourced with low risk of deforestation
State of nature Ecosystem condition Estimated land occupancy 1,073.5 MSA.ha 159,000 MSA.ha
footprint1
Table 9 shows the Group’s disclosure indicators for land/freshwater/ocean-use change, resource use/replenishment and the state of
nature while connecting them with relevant metrics for direct operations, tobacco supply chain, and non-tobacco procured goods and
services. They are chosen for their relevance to our DIRO assessment process, and business strategy and targets.
The grey highlighted areas in Table 9 represent the value chain metrics that were not included in our TNFD report due to their not being
relevant or material at this stage.
Metrics used by the organisation to assess and manage material nature-related risks and opportunities
in line with strategy and risk management process
We have currently only identified potential nature-related risks and opportunities, therefore we are not in a position to report against this
disclosure. We aim to enhance our disclosure in line with our CSRD Reporting in 2026, in relation to year-end 2025.
Note:
1. Direct operations metric is based on 2022 data and tobacco supply chain metric is based on 2023 data.
151
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
TNFD Reporting
Continued
4 Metrics and Targets continued
Reporting Methodology of key existing nature metrics
Biodiversity and ecosystems % of contracted farmers’ wood fuels nurseries in Leaf R&D. It does not include
% of wood used in Thrive supply chain that are from sustainable wood sources irrigation in agriculture, e.g. in leaf growing.
with deforestation and conversion KPI Definition: Sustainable wood sources Methodology: Water withdrawn data is
free (DCF) status are defined as: wood resources harvested collected via the EHS reporting system.
KPI Definition: As stated in the Biodiversity in such a way that does not cause Sites collect data for water withdrawn
Operational Standard on Tobacco Farming, deforestation of natural ecosystems. This based on invoices from suppliers and
we follow the AFI (accountability- may include wood sourced from existing internal metering, which at major sites
framework.org) definitions of deforestation tree plantations or managed natural is performed in real time via building
and conversion as well as the CDP Forest forests, from identified invasive exotic management systems (BMS). Small offices
Guiding Criteria and the Proforest species that have not been planted and apply estimates based on area occupied or
Guidance for Deforestation and Conversion timber by-products, such as sawdust, headcount.
branches and twigs.
Free (DCF) report. We combine different Our 2017 baseline figure for water
levels of evidence and deforestation/ Methodology: The data collected is based withdrawn is 5.20 million cubic meters.
conversion monitoring methods to trace on 100% (more than 90,500 of the directly
Water discharge
and classify wood as DCF (with a cut-off contracted farmers monitored in the
KPI Definition: We use the GRI 303: Water
date of 31 December 2020). Wood should Group’s own Leaf Operations), of which
and Effluents 2018 Standard to guide our
be traceable to at least sub-national 53% make use of wood for curing. The
water discharge definition.
jurisdiction level and should be from: percentage reported represents
sustainable wood used by those farmers. Water discharge includes effluents, used
–Sources certified under an acceptable
This data excludes farmers that our third- water, and unused water released to
scheme
party suppliers source from. The Field surface water, groundwater, seawater,
–Wood production forests monitored for Technician is responsible for the data or a third party. Water can be released into
deforestation and conversion or collection from the farmer in each farm the receiving waterbody either at a defined
authorised natural managed forests with visit. The Field Technician verifies the wood discharge point or dispersed over land in an
management plans quantity and species and / or evidence undefined manner or transported in tanks.
–A sourcing area classified as low risk for given by the farmer, including documents, Methodology: The data for water
deforestation and conversion based on as invoices or any other paper forms, discharge with breakdown by destination
geospatial and/or local risk assessments verifies the existence of forest plantation (third party, fresh water, brackish water,
conducted by third parties on-farm, measures the wood pile as groundwater) is collected via the EHS
Methodology: This is an indicator reported applicable and perform a visual check. reporting system. Sites collect data for
via our Thrive programme, covering 93% of Finally, data is signed off from farmers and water discharges based on internal
tobacco purchased in 2024 and includes on Field Technicians and logged into the metering or invoices from services
the ground assessments for wood monitoring systems. suppliers. In the absence of metering,
traceability, volume, and the type of wood. Total surface area of forests estimates are applied based on water
planted and for conservation withdrawn volumes and typical water
% of pulp and paper materials sourced
and for Forest Positive consumption of equipment and processes.
with low risk of deforestation
KPI Definition: To be considered 'Forest % of operations sites AWS certified
KPI Definition: Relates to the proportion
of volumes (in tonnes) of pulp and paper Positive', a forest should be planted for KPI Definition: AWS certification refers to
products sourced, covering board and conservation purposes. Conversion is the independent certification against Alliance
paper used in primary and secondary change of a natural ecosystem to another for Water Stewardship (AWS) Standard
packaging for all products, fine paper for land use or profound change in a natural 2.0. All BAT operating sites that have gone
cigarettes and Heated Products and ecosystem’s species composition, through the certification process and
cellulose acetate tow for filters. We apply structure, or function. successfully completed each of the five
a materiality threshold, resulting in more To be considered 'Forest Positive, the area steps of the AWS standard guidance:
than 98% of total pulp and paper volumes must be monitored at least one year after 1.Familiarisation with the AWS standard.
sourced being in scope of our assessment. the planting date, to verify the survival rate
2.Register in the AWS standard system.
quantification of the area planted and the
Methodology: In line with the AFi, volumes
number of trees that have become viable. 3.Register with AWS.
are assessed as deforestation free (DF)
when the suppliers of those volumes can Water 4.Implement the AWS standard.
demonstrate that the base material is Water withdrawn 5.Work with Water Stewardship
sourced with low risk of deforestation (with KPI Definition: We use the GRI 303: Water Assurance Services (WSAS) to complete
a cut-off date of 31 December 2020). Low and Effluents 2018 Standard to guide our the certification process, including an on-
risk means the volume is either certified water withdrawn definition and site audit.
through chain of custody schemes methodology. Our sites are considered certified when the
providing full assurance, provided by a Water withdrawn includes all water AWS Certificate is available on the Alliance
supplier that has achieved an drawn from surface water, including for Water Stewardship website within the
“A/A-” rating in their CDP Forest disclosure harvested rainwater, groundwater, reporting period.
for the timber commodity and 100% of
seawater, or third-party water for any use Methodology: % of AWS certified
volume was disclosed as DF, was traceable
within our direct operations. Water is used operations sites is calculated as number of
to a low-risk sourcing area, or was
in manufacturing processes, in utilities, operations sites that hold AWS certificate
traceable to a high-risk sourcing area with
for social and horticultural needs if the divided by total number of operations sites,
the production unit monitored as DF. We
latter are limited to our companies’ which excludes three sites that have been
enhanced this metric in 2024, to align to
premises, such as watering lawns and granted exemption due to local
the latest framework.
circumstances.
152
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
153
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Sustainable Future
This page is intentionally left blank
154
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Principal Risks
Overview
Time frame
The Principal Risks that may affect the
Short-term
Group are set out on the following pages.
Medium-term
Each risk is considered in the context of the Long-term
Group’s strategy and business model, as
set out in this Strategic Report beginning
on page 2 and page 14. On the following Strategic impact
pages is a summary of each Principal Risk,
Quality Growth
its potential impact.
Sustainable Future
Principal Risks are those that have the
potential to materially impact the Dynamic Business
achievement of the Group’s strategic
objectives. These are significant risks that
could affect BAT’s long-term financial Key Stakeholders
performance, reputation, or delivery of
sustainability goals.
Consumers
This section focuses on those risks that the
Directors believe to be the Principal Risks to Society
the Group. Not all of these risks are within
the control of the Group and other risks
Our people
besides those listed may affect the Group’s
performance. Some risks may be unknown
at present. Other risks, currently regarded Shareholders & Investors
as less material, could become material in
the future. Clear accountability is attached
Considered in viability statement
to each risk through the risk owner.
During the year, the “Climate Change and
Circular Economy” risk has been split into Yes
two, recognising the distinct nature of
each. The separation stems from the No
understanding that each area
encompasses unique challenges and
requires tailored mitigation strategies.
The risks listed in this section should be
considered
in the context of the Group’s internal
control framework. This process is
described in the section on risk
management and internal control in the
corporate governance statement from
page 194. This section should also be read
in the context of the cautionary statement
on page 447.
A summary of all the risk factors (including
the Principal Risks) which are monitored by
the Board through the Group’s risk register
is set out in the Additional Disclosures
section from page 414.
155
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Principal Risks
Group Principal Risks
Continued
Risks
Competition from illicit trade
Increased competition from illicit trade and illegal products – either local duty evaded, smuggled, counterfeits, or non-regulatory
compliant, including products diverted from one country to another.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society,
Future Shareholders & Investors
Impact
Illicit trade often leads to more restrictions and regulations
imposed on the legitimate industry, including sales restrictions,
overly burdensome track and trace systems and display packaging
bans. This is often based on the erroneous assertion that the
legitimate industry makes up the bulk of illicit trade in tobacco
products.
Erosion of goodwill, with lower volumes and/or increased
operational costs (e.g. track and trace costs) and reduced profits.
Reduced ability to take price increases.
Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined
and the product is commoditised.
Illicit products (especially in New Categories) could harm
consumers, damaging goodwill, and/or the category (with lower
volumes and reduced profits), potentially leading to misplaced
claims against BAT, further regulation and a failure to deliver the
corporate harm reduction objective.
Breach of legislation, criminal offences, contract breaches under
the EU Cooperation Agreement, allegations of facilitating
smuggling and reputational damage, including negative
perceptions of our governance.
Existence of illicit trade reduces our ability to reduce the health
impact of our business, it undermines policies of state
governments with respect to underage tobacco users and creates
basis for inappropriate regulation.
Geopolitical tensions
Geopolitical tensions, civil unrest, economic policy changes, global health crises, terrorism and organised crime have the potential
to disrupt the Group’s business in multiple markets.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Society, Our people,
Future Shareholders & Investors
Impact
Potential injury or loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to
supply chains and normal business processes.
Increased costs due to more complex supply chain and security
arrangements and/or the cost of building new facilities
or maintaining inefficient facilities.
Lower volumes as a result of not being able to trade in a country.
Higher taxes or other costs of doing business as a foreign
company or the loss of assets as a result of nationalisation.
Reputational damage, including negative perceptions of our
governance and protection of our people and our sustainability
credentials. Disruption to the supply chain impacts our ability to
reduce the health impact of our business.
156
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Tobacco, New Categories and other regulation interrupts growth strategy
The enactment of, proposals for, or rumours of, regulation that significantly impairs the Group’s ability to communicate,
differentiate, market or launch its products, and/or the lack of appropriate regulation for New Categories.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society,
Future Shareholders & Investors
Impact
A lack of acceptance or rejection of Tobacco Harm Reduction
as a tobacco control policy could prevent a balanced regulatory
framework for New Categories. Restricted ability to sell and
communicate New Categories could lead to failure of the harm
reduction objective and loss of confidence in the Group’s
sustainability performance.
Lack of appropriate regulation and its enforcement or
disproportionate regulations for New Categories, such as
questionable regulatory classifications or total bans, that may not
be science-based and/or risk-proportionate, may impact our
opportunity for quality growth and affect our ability to develop and
market a pipeline of new products. Reduced ability to make scientific
claims, compete in future product categories and make new market
entries. Inappropriate regulation may also increase the volume of
illicit trade activity.
Erosion of brand value through commoditisation and the inability
to launch innovations may negatively affect our ability to generate
value growth.
Regulation with respect to bans or severe restrictions on menthol
flavours, product design & features and nicotine levels may adversely
impact individual brand portfolios.
Reduced consumer acceptability of new product specifications,
leading to consumers seeking alternatives in illegal markets or
irresponsible operators exploiting regulatory loopholes.
Shocks to share price on rumours of, or the announcement or
enactment of, restrictive regulation (e.g. sales ban to future
generations).
Failure to deliver appropriate and proportionately costed Extended
Producer Responsibility (EPR) schemes.
Please refer to the to the description of the tobacco and nicotine regulatory regimes under which the Group’s businesses operate set out from page 436
Supply chain disruption
Disruption to the global supply chain that may impact our ability to manufacture products or supply our consumers.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Our people,
Future/Dynamic Business Shareholders & Investors
Impact
Disruption to the global supply chain may impact all aspects
of our business and impede our ability to manufacture products
and supply our consumers.
Disruption to supply chain can lead to volume shortfalls and
inability to supply markets, increased replacement or/and rebuild
costs consequently leading to reduced profit and reputational
damage. This may affect our ability to reinvest into New Categories
and deliver our Tobacco Harm Reduction commitment.
Loss of one or more key facilities or suppliers may cause loss of life
and injuries. It may also lead to societal dislocation resulting in
population migration and loss of key skills.
Our supply chain could be negatively impacted by events arising
from, but not limited to natural disasters, man-made accidents,
cyber incidents.
157
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Principal Risks
Group Principal Risks
Continued
Risks continued
Litigation
Product liability, regulatory or other significant cases (including investigations or class action litigations) may be lost or settled
resulting in a material loss or other consequence.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Shareholders & Investors
future
Impact
Damages and fines, negative impact on reputation (including
sustainability credentials), disruption and loss of focus on the
business.
Consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial
position could be materially affected by an unfavourable outcome
or settlement of pending or future litigation, criminal prosecution or
other contentious action, or by the costs associated with bringing
proceedings or defending claims.
Inability to sell products as a result of an injunction arising out of a
patent infringement action against the Group may restrict growth
plans and competitiveness.
Potential share price impact.
Sustainability-related litigation could also result in a reduction in
the investor base due to sustainability and sustainability-related
concerns.
Please refer to note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
Significant increases or structural changes in tobacco, nicotine and New Categories related taxes
The Group is exposed to unexpected and/or significant increases or structural changes in tobacco, nicotine and New Categories
related taxes in top markets.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society,
Future Shareholders & Investors
Impact
Consumers reject the Group’s legitimate tax-paid products for
products from illicit sources or cheaper alternatives.
Reduced legal industry volumes.
Reduced sales volume and/or portfolio erosion leading to inability
to invest in, develop, commercialise and deliver New Category
products.
Partial absorption of excise increases leading to lower profitability.
A disproportionate tax, which would be passed on to the consumer,
could discourage consumer switching from FMC to reduced-risk
products.
158
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Inability to develop, commercialise and deliver the New Categories strategy
Risk of not capitalising on the opportunities in developing and commercialising successful, safer and consumer-appealing
innovations, which are backed by science.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society,
Future/Dynamic Business Shareholders & Investors
Impact
Inability to continue to deliver Group financial results in line with
shareholder and analyst expectations resulting in an adverse
external perception to the Group Strategy and reputation.
Potentially missed opportunities, unrecoverable costs and/or
erosion of brand, with lower volumes and reduced profits.
Reputational damage and recall costs may arise in the event
of defective product design or manufacture.
Loss of market share due to non-compliance of product
portfolio with regulatory requirements or inability to engage on
our science, leading to a negative shift in sentiment and confidence
in Group products.
Loss of investor confidence in sustainability performance.
Inability to convince regulators and policymakers regarding the
weight of scientific evidence assessment underpinning the harm
reduction potential of New Categories products which could result
in failure to deliver our corporate purpose of Building a Smokeless
World.
Disputed taxes, interest and penalties
The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the payment of interest, in the event of an unfavourable ruling
by a tax authority in a disputed area.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Shareholders & Investors
Future
Impact
Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on the business due to diversion
of management time.
Impact on liquidity, cashflow, profit and dividend.
Injury, illness or death in the workplace
The risk of injury, death or ill health to employees and those who work with the business is a fundamental concern of the Group
and can have a significant effect on our operations.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Our people
Future/Dynamic Business
Impact
Serious injuries, ill health, disability or loss of life suffered by
employees and the people who work with the Group.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of prosecution
from enforcement bodies and the cost of associated legal costs,
fines and/or penalties.
Interruption of Group operations if issues are not addressed
promptly.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees if perceived
to have a poor Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) record.
Reputational damage to the Group and negative impact on our
sustainability credentials.
159
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Principal Risks
Group Principal Risks
Continued
Risks continued
Solvency and liquidity
Liquidity (access to cash and sources of finance) is essential to maintaining the Group as a going concern in the short-term
(liquidity) and medium-term (solvency).
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Shareholders & Investors
Future/Dynamic Business
Impact
Inability to access the Group’s cash resources and to fund the
business under the current capital structure resulting in missed
strategic opportunities or inability to respond to threats.
Decline in our creditworthiness and increased funding costs
for the Group.
Requirement to issue equity or seek new sources of capital.
Reputational risk of failure to manage the financial risk profile
of the business, resulting in an erosion of shareholder value
reflected in an underperforming share price.
Inability to mitigate accounting and economic exposures.
Economic loss as a result of devaluation/revaluation of assets
(including cash) valued or held in local currency, and additional
costs as a result of paying premiums to obtain hard currency.
Failure to appropriately engage with investors’ and lenders’
sustainability criteria and concerns may impact BAT’s counterparty
availability, credit ratings, access to funding, or may result in an
increase in the cost of funding.
Exposure to the cannabis sector may lead to regulatory and legal
risk, reputation and compliance issues restricting bank and/or
investor access.
Foreign exchange rates exposures
The Group faces translational and transactional foreign exchange (FX) rate exposure for earnings/cash flows from its
global businesses.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-term Quality Growth/Dynamic Shareholders & Investors
Business
Impact
Fluctuations in FX rates of key currencies against sterling introduce
volatility in reported earnings per share (EPS), cash flow and the
balance sheet driven by translation into sterling of our financial
results and these exposures are not normally hedged.
The dividend may be impacted if the payout ratio is not adjusted.
Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may
affect key ratios used by credit rating agencies.
Volatility and/or increased costs in our business, due to
transactional FX, may adversely impact financial performance.
160
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Climate Change
Direct and indirect adverse impacts associated with climate change.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society,
Future Shareholders & Investors
Impact
Direct physical risks to BAT agricultural, manufacturing, operational
and logistic processes may lead to reduced production capability,
delays, volume shortfalls, disruption of energy supply (and other
utilities) and business interruption.
Extreme temperatures and weather events could be harmful for
employees, creating health and safety risks.
Failure to adequately manage supply chain risks associated with
climate change may cause increased volatility in supply volume,
quality or cost of raw materials and services necessary for the
effective and efficient operation of BAT's business across its value
chain.
GHG emissions can indirectly increase costs.
Failure to comply with evolving climate change-related regulations
could result in punitive actions or loss of market access.
Poor agency ratings associated with Climate Change risk,
performance, mitigation, or adaptation could lead to reduced
access to capital, increased cost of capital or impact the share price.
In both 2024 and 2023, extreme weather events led to charges of
£11 million (in 2024) related to machinery damage and £9 million
(in 2023) in respect of the destruction of a warehouse and stock
of tobacco leaf.
161
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Principal Risks
Group Principal Risks
Continued
Circular Economy
Direct and indirect adverse impacts associated with the move towards a circular economy.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society,
Future Shareholders & Investors
Impact
Punitive actions against the Group or inability to sell products in
the top markets, due to failure to comply with evolving regulations
and requirements relevant to business operations, products and
supply chain, and reporting.
Poor sustainability ratings by investors may lead to reduced access
to capital, increased cost of capital or impact the share price.
Reduction of market share and revenue, due to consumers having
a reduced or negative perception of BAT and its products in
comparison to its competitors, or of specific products/product
categories overall.
Inadequate waste management can increase negative public
opinion of BAT, damage brand value and increase waste
management costs.
Inability to source, design and manufacture products that require
sustainably sourced critical raw materials or materials that are
affected by increased duties or tariffs.
Increase in write-offs and early retirement of existing assets,
resulting in additional cost.
Negative impact upon the attraction, retention and motivation
of skilled employees and contractors.
Risks continued
Cyber Security
Inability of the organisation to defend against an intentional or unintentional action that results in loss of confidentiality,
availability or integrity of systems and data.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society, Our
Future/Dynamic Business People, Shareholders &
Investors
Impact
Loss or theft of confidential business information, when used alone
or in conjunction with any other available information reduces the
impact of BAT business strategy, investments and commercial
operations.
Personal data breach incidents that result in the disclosure of
personally identifiable data resulting in legal, reputational, and
regulatory compliance impacts.
Disruption to BAT’s business operations that impacts R&D
facilities, manufacturing, distribution or technology services
resulting in business interruption and/or impacts to health & safety.
Inappropriate use of technology systems, including the use of AI-
powered tools, to enable fraud, or theft of product, technology, or
monetary resources.
Loss of digital trust resulting in brand damage and a loss of
consumer trust.
A cyber incident experienced by a third-party partner or supplier
resulting in business interruption, supply chain disruption, loss of
company data or provides access or transmission of malicious
activity from the supplier to BAT.
Non-compliance with cybersecurity standards and system
vulnerabilities can precipitate other Group principal risks.
162
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
163
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Governance
Chair’s Introduction on Governance
Dear Shareholder,
This year, we have been Our governance is geared to promoting I continue to be impressed by the people
proactive in articulating the debate, engagement and informed driving innovation across the Group, and
Group's position on tobacco outcomes in several contexts; in the their commitment to delivering our
harm reduction (THR) to make Boardroom, across the Group, and with purpose in line with our values.
our shareholders and other stakeholders.
a constructive and responsible You can read more about the Board's
Whether it is transformation metrics,
contribution to the global debate programme of market and site visits on
workplace perspectives, or scientific
on THR acceptance. page 174 and the Board's approach to
insights, through our governance we
engaging with our people across the Group
have sought to empower thoughtful
on page 182.
Luc Jobin communication with our key
Chair constituencies. Shaping the landscape
This year, we have been proactive in
The environment we operate in
articulating the Group's position on
The Board has taken time to reflect on our
tobacco harm reduction (THR) to make a
current operating environment, how we
constructive and responsible contribution
expect this to evolve, and how we can
to the global debate on THR acceptance.
demonstrate progress against our A Better
TomorrowTM strategy and commitment to This proactivity is well illustrated by two
Building a Smokeless World. To this end, key milestones. Firstly, the launch of a
we launched new transformation metrics science and evidential case for THR in the
in October to support our stakeholders' form of ‘Omni™: Forward Thinking for a
understanding of the pace of our progress Smokeless World', a compendium of
(discussed on page 184). independent scientific studies, the Group's
own research into innovations and
Responsible capital allocation underpins
examples of THR in action. This was
our ability to deliver transformation. The
followed by publication of our
Board actively oversaw the application of
'Commitment to Responsible Vaping
our capital allocation framework during the
Products', in which we communicate the
year, as highlighted on page 184. Within
actions we are taking as a responsible
this, we authorised a new share buy-back
industry leader.
programme, discussed on page 7, while
maintaining focus on deleveraging. Turning to engagement with our
We continue to keep capital allocation shareholders and investors, we conducted
under review and to evaluate opportunities a full programme of engagement during
to enhance financial flexibility, taking into the year, supplemented by focused
account the evolving trading and regulatory engagement with shareholders on
environment. proposals for our new Directors'
Remuneration Policy, to be presented at
Workforce perspectives
our upcoming Annual General Meeting.
As a Board, we are keen to listen to the
views of our colleagues across the Group. I have valued the opportunity to meet with
Of focus this year has been assessing how a number of shareholders during the year
well our values are being communicated and look forward to further dialogue with
and embedded in our culture. As Directors, you ahead of our Annual General Meeting
connecting directly with people at different in April 2025.
levels across the organisation is a You can read more about how we engage
rewarding way to gauge how they are with our stakeholders and take their views
bringing our values to life. into account on pages 178 to 184.
I was pleased to meet with colleagues Delivery with Integrity
across a number of markets and business Our Standards of Business Conduct (SoBC)
units this year. Holly Keller Koeppel and express the high standards of integrity we
Murray Kessler joined me at our U.S. are committed to upholding.
market briefings in March, and the Board
Compliance with our SoBC and our legal
as a whole returned to the U.S. for our
obligations are mandatory requirements
annual strategy meeting in the autumn.
that all of our people must uphold and
In May, I travelled to Poland with Karen these are enshrined in our value of 'Do the
Guerra, Darrell Thomas and Serpil Timuray right thing'.
to visit retail operations in Warsaw and our
Ethical behaviour and rigorous adherence
Digital Business Services Hub.
to compliance standards continue to be a
Following this, Kandy Anand and Véronique core priority for the Group. We update our
Laury joined Darrell and I in Japan for SoBC on a regular basis to take into
several events with the local team, account our stakeholders' expectations
including a marketing showcase on our and the current regulatory environment.
evolving digital consumer experience. As Our SoBC and Delivery with Integrity
part of all these market visits, Directors programme are discussed on pages 118
to 119.
appreciated opportunities to listen to the
perspectives of local colleagues, including
through townhall meetings.
164
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board efficacy and diversity
Board Leadership and Company Purpose
Ensuring we have the right capabilities Throughout the year
in place to drive our strategy is a critical Principle
ended 31 December
responsibility of the Board and essential A. Long-Term Sustainable Success
to our sustainable success. 2024, we applied the pages 2 to 152 and 164 to 188
I was delighted to welcome Soraya B. Purpose, Values and Culture
Principles of the 2018 pages 2 to 10, 11 to 13, 38 to 39, 60 to 63,
Benchikh to her role of Chief Financial
110 to 112, 164 to 165, 173 to 175, 182 to 183,
Officer from 1 May 2024, completing the UK Corporate 188, 226 and 232 to 235
executive transition that commenced in C. Resources and Control Framework
2023. With her extensive leadership and Governance Code pages 2 to 17, 155 to 163, 172 to 173, 177
financial experience, Soraya has already and 194 to 204
(2018 Code).
proved herself a strong addition to our D. Shareholder and Stakeholder Engagement
executive management team. pages 18 to 19, 111, 164, 178 to 184, 205 to 215, 226
and 232 to 235
I look forward to welcoming Uta The Company was compliant
E. Workforce Engagement, Policies, Practices
Kemmerich-Keil, who will join the Board with all provisions of the 2018 pages 111, 116, 117 to 119, 173 to 175, 182 to 183,
with effect from 17 February 2025 and I Code during the year. The 226 and 232 to 235
thank Murray Kessler for his contributions
Board considers that this
over his tenure, ahead of his retirement
from the Board with effect from 17 Annual Report and Form 20-F, Division of Responsibilities
February 2025. and notably this Governance Principle
section, provides the information
I also extend my thanks to Holly as our new F. Leadership of the Board
Senior Independent Director, Darrell as our shareholders need to evaluate pages 164 to 188
new Audit Committee Chair, and Kandy as how we have complied with our G. Board Composition and Division of
our new Remuneration Committee Chair, obligations under Responsibilities
pages 166 to 169, 172 and 185 to 186
for the speed at which they have taken up the 2018 Code.
the reins of their new roles since their H. Role and Commitment of Non-Executive Directors
pages 166 to 169, 185 to 186 and 189 to 190
respective appointments to these positions
in April 2024. Pages noted opposite refer to particular I. Board Support
discussion on the application of pages 186 to 187
Looking at the diversity of our Board overall, Principles of the 2018 Code in this
which our Nominations Committee has Annual Report and Form 20-F.
been mindful to develop, I am pleased to Composition, Succession, Evaluation
The 2018 Code is available at
report that women currently represent frc.org.uk. Principle
50% of the Board, and that 40% of our
J. Board Appointments, Succession and Diversity
Directors are from an ethnic minority
pages 166 to 169, 177 and 189 to 193
background. Disclosure guidance and
K. Board Skills and Experience
We continue our efforts to promote transparency rules pages 166 to 169 and 189 to 190
diversity in our executive management We comply with the Disclosure
L. Board Performance Review
through active oversight of the development Guidance and Transparency Rules pages 187 to 188
of our senior management pipeline and this requirements for corporate governance
will remain a key focus for the Nominations statements by virtue of the information
Committee and the Board in 2025. included in this section, together with Audit, Risk, Internal Control
I have led an internal review of the the information contained in the Other Principle
Information section.
effectiveness of our Board, its principal M. Internal and External Audit Functions
Committees and the Directors this year. pages 201 to 204
Our Board has considered the outcomes of U.S. corporate governance N. Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment
the annual review and we report on our pages 199 and 247
As a result of the listing of the
conclusions on page 188. We consider that O. Risk Management and Internal Controls
Company’s American Depositary
the Board continues to function effectively pages 155 to 163, 177, 194 to 204 and 445
Shares (ADSs) on the NYSE, the
and we identified a set of focused actions
Company is required to meet certain
for implementation in 2025 to continue to NYSE requirements relating to Remuneration
enhance our effectiveness.
corporate governance matters.
Principle
On behalf of the Board, I confirm that we
Certain exceptions to these
consider that this Annual Report and Form P. Remuneration Policies and Practices
requirements apply to the Company pages 205 to 246
20-F is fair, balanced and understandable,
as a foreign private issuer. For details
and presents the information necessary to Q. Development of Policy on Remuneration
of the significant differences between pages 205 to 226, 232 to 246
assess the Company’s position, performance,
the NYSE requirements and the
R. Judgement and Discretion
business model and strategy.
Company’s practices, please see pages 205 to 246
page 444.
Luc Jobin
+ For reference, we prepare a separate
Chair voluntary annual compliance report by
reference to each Principle and Provision
of the 2018 Code, available at bat.com/
governance
165
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Governance
Board of Directors
As at 12 February 2025
Luc Jobin Tadeu Marroco Soraya Benchikh
Chair (65) Chief Executive (58) Chief Financial Officer (55)
Nationality: Canadian Nationality: Brazilian Nationality: French
Appointed: Chair since April 2021; Non- Appointed: Chief Executive since May Appointed: Chief Financial Officer;
Executive Director since July 2017 2023; Director since August 2019 Director since May 2024
Experience: Luc was President and Chief Experience: Tadeu joined the Group in Experience: Soraya joined the Board on
Executive Officer of Canadian National 1992 and joined the Management Board 1 May 2024 as Chief Financial Officer. She
Railway Company from July 2016 until as Director, Business Development in was previously with BAT from 1998 to
March 2018, having served as Executive 2014. He later became Regional Director, 2020, where she held a variety of
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Western Europe in 2016, and Regional executive roles including Finance Director
since 2009. Previously, he was Executive Director, Europe and North Africa in in France and CEO of the Eastern and
Vice President of Power Corporation of January 2018. He became Director, Group Southern Africa region. Immediately prior
Canada (an international financial Transformation in January 2019 and, in to re-joining, Soraya had been President,
services company) from 2005 to 2009. addition to this role, he was appointed Europe at Diageo plc since January 2023,
Luc was Chief Executive Officer of Deputy Finance Director in March 2019 having joined Diageo in July 2020
Imperial Tobacco Canada from 2003 to and joined the Main Board as Finance and as Managing Director for Northern
2005 and Executive Vice President and Transformation Director in August 2019. Europe. Earlier in her career, Soraya
Chief Financial Officer from 1998 to 2003. He was appointed Chief Executive in worked in finance roles at General Electric
Luc previously served as an independent May 2023 and Gillette
Non-Executive Director of Reynolds Relevant skills and contribution to the Relevant skills and contribution to the
American Inc. from 2008 until its Board: Tadeu brings significant Board: Soraya brings extensive
acquisition by the Group management, innovation, and strategic experience gained in various regional,
Relevant skills and contribution to the leadership to the Board gained in various global finance and general leadership
Board: Luc brings significant financial, regional, global finance and general roles across the FMCG sector and within
regulatory and M&A experience to the leadership roles across the Group. This the BAT Group
Board, together with extensive North enables him to effectively lead the Group
External appointments: No external
American knowledge and experience of and deliver our ambition to build a
appointments
enterprise transformation and consumer smokeless world and create A Better
and customer businesses
TomorrowTM
External appointments: No external External appointments: No external
appointments appointments
Balance of Non-Executive Directors Length of tenure of Nationality of Directors
and Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
Chair 1 0–3 Years 4 American 4 Canadian 1
Executive Directors 2 4–6 Years 2 Brazilian 1 French 2
Independent Non-Executive Directors 7 7+ Years 2 British 1 Turkish/British 1
166
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
Committee Chair
Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Holly Keller Koeppel Krishnan (Kandy) Anand
Senior Independent Director (66) Non-Executive Director (67)
Nationality: American Nationality: American
Appointed: Senior Independent Director Appointed: February 2022
since April 2024; Non-Executive Director Experience: Kandy previously held
since July 2017 several senior positions at Molson Coors
Experience: Up until April 2018, Holly was a Brewing Company, including Chief
Senior Advisor to Corsair Capital LLC, where Growth Officer, CEO of Molson Coors
she had previously served as Managing International and Head of Strategy, M&A
Partner and Co-Head of Infrastructure from and Transformation. He also held senior
2015 until her retirement in 2017. From 2010 positions at the Coca-Cola Company,
to 2015, she served as Co-Head of Citi including President, Coca-Cola
Infrastructure Investors. Prior to 2010, she Philippines and Vice President, Global
held financial and executive management Commercial Leadership. Prior to joining
roles with Consolidated Natural Gas Coca-Cola, Kandy held several senior
Company and American Electric Power marketing leadership positions at
Company, Inc. (AEP), ultimately serving as Unilever plc. Kandy previously served on
Chief Financial Officer of AEP. Holly the boards of Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen
previously served as an independent Non- Inc. and Empower Acquisition Company
Executive Director of Reynolds American Relevant skills and contribution to the
Inc. from 2008 until its acquisition by the Board: Kandy brings notable international
Group, and as an independent Non- experience to the Board, particularly in
Executive Director of Vesuvius plc the marketing and consumer goods
Relevant skills and contribution to the sectors
Board: Holly’s extensive international External appointments: Director of
operational and financial management Wingstop Inc.; Chief Executive Officer of
experience in a range of industry sectors Igniting Business Growth L.L.C.; and
enables her to make important Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
contributions to the Board Igniting Consumer Growth Acquisition Co.
External appointments: Senior Independent
Director and Chair of Audit Committee of
Flutter Entertainment plc; Director and Chair
of the Financial Audit Committee of AES
Corporation; and Director and Chair of the
Governance and Sustainability Committee
of Arch Resources Inc.
Directors’ Directors’
gender balance ethnicity balance
Note:
Male 5 Ethnic minority background1 4 1. Applying UK Office for National Statistics ethnicity
categories of: Asian; Black; Mixed/Multiple Ethnic
Female 5 White 6 Groups; Other Non-White Ethnic Group, in alignment
with the UK Listing Rules.
167
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Governance
Board of Directors
Continued
Karen Guerra Murray S. Kessler Véronique Laury
Non-Executive Director (68) Non-Executive Director (65) Non-Executive Director (59)
Nationality: British Nationality: American Nationality: French
Appointed: September 2020 Appointed: November 2023 Appointed: September 2022
Experience: Karen has held a variety of Experience: Murray previously held Experience: Over the course of her
executive roles, including President and several senior positions, including Chief career, Véronique has held several
Director General of Colgate Palmolive Executive, President and Board Member leadership roles. From September 2014 to
France, and Chair and Managing Director of Perrigo plc, President, Chief Executive September 2019, she was Chief Executive
of Colgate Palmolive UK Limited. She was Officer & Chairman of the Board of Officer of Kingfisher plc, an international
formerly a Non-Executive Director of RS Lorillard Tobacco Co., Vice Chair of Altria home improvement company across
Group plc (formerly Electrocomponents Group, Inc. and President, Chief Executive Europe operating under several brands
p.l.c.), Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A., Officer & Chairman of the Board of including B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dépôt,
Paysafe PLC, Inchcape PLC, Samlerhuset UST LLC. Prior to joining UST, Murray Screwfix and Koçtaş. She spent over
BV, Swedish Match AB and Amcor p.l.c. had a twelve-year career with Campbell 16 years at Kingfisher and during her
(formerly Amcor Limited) Soup Company, having served as Vice tenure she also served as Chief Executive
President of Sales and Marketing, Officer and Commercial Director at both
Relevant skills and contribution to the
General Manager of the Swanson B&Q and Castorama. Véronique
Board: Karen brings valuable international
Division of Campbell Soup and other previously served on the Board of
experience, particularly in marketing,
leadership roles WeWork Inc.
sales and consumer goods insight,
to the Board Relevant skills and contribution to the Relevant skills and contribution to the
Board: Murray utilises considerable Board: Véronique brings extensive
External appointments: No external
international experience in his international consumer goods, strategic,
appointments
contributions to the Board, particularly transformation and digital experience to
in growing consumer product companies the Board
and managing regulated businesses External appointments: Board member
External appointments: Chief Executive of Sodexo SA; Inter IKEA Holding B.V.;
Officer of Wellington International LLC Eczacıbaşı Holding Company; and Société
Bic S.A.
Murray S. Kessler will step down from the
Board with effect from 17 February 2025
and will not be proposed for re-election
at the Company’s 2025 Annual General
Meeting
Attendance at Board meetings in 2024 Notes:
1. Number of meetings in 2024: The Board held eight
Attended/Eligible to meetings in 2024, three of which were ad hoc, to
attend1 review: patents matters; the proposal to dispose of
Name Director since Meetings4 p in a it r i t a o te f t a h s e h G ar r e o u b p u 's y - i b n a ve c s k t p m ro e g n r t a h m e m ld e in ; a IT n C d a L n im u i p te d d a t a e n d
Luc Jobin 2017 8/8 on the status of certain litigation matters.
2. (a) Véronique Laury did not attend the ad hoc
Tadeu Marroco 2019 8/8 meetings in January and June 2024 convened at short
Soraya Benchikh3(a) 2024 4/4 notice due to prior commitments; (b) Sue Farr did not
attend the ad hoc meetings in January and March 2024
Kandy Anand 2022 8/8 convened at short notice due to prior commitments; and
(c) Dimitri Panayotopoulos did not attend the ad hoc
Karen Guerra 2020 8/8 meeting in March 2024 due to illness.
Holly Keller Koeppel 2017 8/8 3. Composition: The Board of Directors is shown as at
the date of this Annual Report and Form 20-F; (a)
Murray S. Kessler3(c) 2023 8/8 Soraya Benchikh joined the Board with effect from
Véronique Laury2(a) 2022 6/8 1 O M ffi a c y e r 2 ; 0 (b 2 ) 4 S o u n e h F e a r r r a p a p n o d i n D t i m m e it n ri t P a a s n C a h yo ie t f o F p i o n u a l n o c s i al
stepped down from the Board with effect from the
Darrell Thomas 2020 8/8
conclusion of the AGM on 24 April 2024; (c) Murray
Serpil Timuray 2023 8/8 Kessler will step down from the Board with effect
from 17 February 2025.
Sue Farr2(b)3(b) 2015 - 2024 2/4 4. Number of meetings in 2025: Five Board meetings are
Dimitri Panayotopoulos2(c)3(b) 2015 - 2024 3/4 s a c s h m ed ay u l b e e d r f e o q r u 2 i 0 re 2 d 5 . , with ad hoc meetings convened
168
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
Committee Chair
Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Darrell Thomas Serpil Timuray
Non-Executive Director (64) Non-Executive Director (55) Note:
Effective 17 February 2025, Uta Kemmerich-Keil will
be appointed as an independent Non-Executive
Director and member of the Audit and Nominations
Nationality: American Nationality: Turkish/British Committees, and Murray S. Kessler will step down
from the Board.
Appointed: December 2020 Appointed: December 2023
Experience: Most recently, Darrell served Experience: Serpil has carried out a
as Vice President and Treasurer for number of executive roles, including her
Harley-Davidson, Inc., a position which he current role as CEO of Vodafone
held from June 2010 to April 2022, having Investments and a member of Vodafone
previously held several senior finance Group's Executive Committee (Serpil will
positions, including Interim Chief Financial leave Vodafone at the end of June 2025).
Officer for Harley-Davidson, Inc., Chief Serpil's former roles on Vodafone Group's
Financial Officer for Harley Davidson Executive Committee include CEO of
Financial Services, Inc. and Vice President Europe Cluster, Group Chief Commercial
and Assistant Treasurer, PepsiCo, Inc.. Operations and Strategy Officer, and
Prior to joining PepsiCo, Inc. Darrell had Regional CEO of AMAP (Africa, Middle
a 19-year career in banking with East, Asia-Pacific). She joined Vodafone
Commerzbank Securities, Swiss Re New in 2009, as CEO of Vodafone Turkey. Prior
Markets, ABN Amro Bank and Citicorp/ to joining Vodafone she spent 10 years at
Citibank where he held various capital Danone, latterly as the CEO of Danone
markets and corporate finance roles. Dairy Turkey. She began her career in 1991
Darrell was previously an Independent at Procter & Gamble, where she held
Director of Pitney Bowes Inc. several marketing roles for eight years
Relevant skills and contribution to the and latterly as a member of the Executive
Committee in Türkiye. She was previously
Board: Darrell brings valuable
an independent Non-Executive Director
international experience to the Board,
of Danone Group Plc from 2015 to 2023
particularly in finance and treasury,
and the Chair of the Corporate Social
in addition to his extensive operational
Responsibility Committee
and management skills and knowledge
of capital markets Relevant skills and contribution to the
Board: Serpil brings extensive
External appointments: Non-Executive
operational, strategy and marketing
Director of Vontier Corporation;
experience to the Board, drawn from
Independent Director of Dorman
roles in large companies operating in the
Products Inc.; Non-Executive Director
technology and fast-moving consumer
of Scotia Holdings (US) Inc.; and Member
goods sectors
of the Finance Committee of Sojourner
Family Peace Center, Inc. External appointments: CEO of
Vodafone Investments; and Non-
Executive Director of TPG Telecom Plc
169
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Governance
Management Board
As at 12 February 2025
Tadeu Marroco Soraya Benchikh Jerome Abelman James Barrett
Chief Executive (58) Chief Financial Officer (55) Director, Legal and General Director, Business
Counsel (61) Development (50)
Nationality: Brazilian Nationality: French Nationality: American Nationality: British
Tadeu joined the Group in 1992 Soraya joined the Board on Jerome was appointed James joined the
and joined the Management 1 May 2024 as Chief Financial Director, Legal and General Management Board as
Board as Director, Business Officer. She was previously Counsel in September 2023, Director, Business
Development in 2014. He later with BAT from 1998 to 2020, after joining the Management Development in September
became Regional Director, where she held a variety of Board as Director, Corporate 2023. He has been with BAT
Western Europe in 2016, and executive roles including and Regulatory Affairs in since 1996, having joined as a
Regional Director, Europe and Finance Director in France January 2015. In May 2015, Management Trainee and has
North Africa in January 2018. and CEO of the Eastern and he became General Counsel taken various senior roles in
He became Director, Group Southern Africa region. and Director, Legal & External finance, including a number of
Transformation in January Immediately prior to re- Affairs. He served as a finance directorships globally,
2019 and, in addition to this joining, Soraya had been Director on the Board of Group Finance Controller,
role, he was appointed Deputy President, Europe at Diageo Reynolds American Inc. from Head of M&A and most
Finance Director in March 2019 plc since January 2023, having February 2016 until July 2017 recently as Consumer
and joined the Main Board as joined Diageo in July 2020 Director, Beyond Nicotine
Finance and Transformation as Managing Director for
Director in August 2019. He Northern Europe. Earlier
was appointed Chief Executive in her career, Soraya worked
in May 2023 in finance roles at General
Electric and Gillette
+ For full biographies for
Tadeu and Soraya are set
out on page 166
Luciano Comin Michael Dijanosic Javed Iqbal
Chief Marketing Officer (55) Regional Director, Asia-Pacific, Director, Digital and Information
Middle East and Africa (53) (52)
Nationality: Italian/Argentinian Nationality: Australian Nationality: Pakistani
Luciano became Chief Marketing Michael became Regional Javed joined the
Officer in September 2024, Director, Asia-Pacific, Middle Management Board as
having previously held various East and Africa in April 2023, Director, Digital and
roles on the Management Board, having joined the Management Information in April 2022.
including Regional Director, Board on 1 September 2020 in He joined the Group as a
Americas and Sub-Saharan the role of Regional Director, Management Trainee,
Africa from January 2019 to Asia-Pacific and Middle East. Finance in 1996 and has
January 2023, Marketing Previously, he was Area previously held a number of
Director, Combustibles from Director for Asia-Pacific and senior roles, most recently
January 2023 to July 2023, and Global Travel Retail. Michael Area Director for Middle East,
Marketing Director, joined the Group in 1999 and South Asia and North Africa.
Combustibles & New Categories has held several senior roles in Between May 2023 and April
from July 2023 to September the Group including General 2024, he also served as
2024. Luciano joined the Group Manager (Papua New Guinea Interim Finance Director
in 1992 and held various senior and Cambodia) and Regional
marketing roles, including Manager, Asia-Pacific
Regional Marketing Manager
for Western Europe and Regional
Head of Marketing, Americas
and Sub-Saharan Africa
170
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Zafar Khan Dr Cora Koppe-Stahrenberg Paul McCrory Fred Monteiro
Director, Operations (52) Chief People Officer (59) Director, Corporate and Regional Director, Americas &
Regulatory Affairs (52) Europe (58)
Nationality: Pakistani Nationality: German Nationality: Irish Nationality: Brazilian
Zafar joined the Management Cora joined the Management Paul joined the Management Fred joined the Management
Board as Director, Operations Board as Chief People Officer Board as Director, Corporate Board in April 2023 as
in February 2021. In July 2023, in November 2023. and Regulatory Affairs in Regional Director for the
New Categories R&D was Immediately prior to joining September 2023. He has Americas & Europe. His
made part of operations with BAT, she was Global Head been with BAT since 2006. previous roles include being
teams based in multiple of Human Resources at His previous roles include Area Director for Central
geographies including China. Fresenius Medical Care, Head of Commercial Legal Europe South and General
This brought the full product a publicly listed global and Assistant General Manager of BAT Japan,
life cycle management under healthcare company. Counsel Corporate and Group having initially joined the
Zafar's responsibility. Previously she held senior Company Secretary Group in 1987
Previously, he was Group Head HR leadership roles at various
of New Categories Operations. multinational companies
Zafar joined BAT in 1996 and across the financial services
has held senior roles in the sector
Group, including Regional
Head of Operations Asia
Pacific & Middle East, Group
Head of Plan, Service &
Logistics, Regional Head of
Plan and Service for Western
Europe and Head of
Operations, Bangladesh
Dr James Murphy Johan Vandermeulen David Waterfield Kingsley Wheaton
Director, Research and Chief Operating Officer (57) President and CEO, Reynolds Chief Corporate Officer (52)
Science (49) American Inc. (52)
Nationality: Irish Nationality: Belgian Nationality: British Nationality: British
James was appointed Johan was appointed as the David joined the Management Kingsley was appointed Chief
Director, Research and Group’s Chief Operating Officer Board as President and CEO of Corporate Officer in
Science in March 2023, having in July 2023. Johan joined the Reynolds American Inc. in July September 2024. He joined
joined the Management Management Board in 2014 as 2023. His previous roles include the Management Board in
Board in February 2023. He Regional Director for Eastern being Area Director for 2012 and has held various
has been with the Group for Europe, Middle East and Africa, Western Europe and Head of roles since then – most
more than 19 years in various then became Regional Director, International Brand Group, recently as Chief Strategy &
senior roles in the Group, Asia-Pacific and Middle East in having joined the Group in 1998 Growth Officer. He joined the
including EVP U.S. Scientific January 2018. He has been with Group in 1996 and has held
Research & Development the Group for more than 30 various senior marketing
based in the U.S., as well as years and his previous roles positions, including Managing
Group Head of PRRP Science include General Manager in Director, Next Generation
and Regional Product Russia and Türkiye and Global Products, Regional Director,
Manager for Americas and Brand Director for the Kent Americas and Sub-Saharan
Sub-Saharan Africa brand Africa, Chief Marketing
Officer and Chief Growth
Officer
171
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership and Purpose
Governance Framework
An overview of our governance framework is set out below.
There is a clear and effective division of responsibility established
between our Board, its Committees and operational management.
Our Board
Primary Board responsibilities include:
–Group strategy (including –Dividend policy (including declaration of –Assessing and monitoring culture and
sustainability) and ensuring resources dividends) and returns to shareholders its alignment with Group purpose, values
are in place to meet objectives –Significant investments, disposals, and strategy
–Setting Group performance objectives corporate financing and other corporate –Ensuring workplace policies and practices
and monitoring performance activities align with values and support sustainable
–Group budget –Board, Management Board and success
–Effective risk management and internal Company Secretary appointments and –Monitoring compliance with the
control framework succession planning Standards of Business Conducts and
–Periodic financial reporting –Establishing appropriate systems of review of Speak Up channels and reports
corporate governance within the Group arising
–Annual Report & Accounts and Form
20-F approval –Group policies –Considering annual review of Board
performance and effectiveness
–Effective engagement with shareholders,
our workforce and wider stakeholders
+ The statement of matters reserved for the + Read more on our Board oversight of M&A transactions
Board is available at bat.com/governance on page 390
Board Committees
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee
Monitors the integrity of financial Reviews the structure, size and Establishes the Directors’ Remuneration
reporting and consistency of accounting composition of the Board, Board Policy; determines remuneration for the
policies; risk management and internal Committees and Management Board; Chair and Executive Directors; sets
control framework; assurance recommends Board, its Committees and remuneration for Management Board
of sustainability metrics; independence Management Board appointments; members and the Company Secretary;
and effectiveness of the external oversees development of the executive and sets and determines performance
auditors; and effectiveness of the talent pipeline; and implements the Board against targets for incentive schemes.
internal audit function. Diversity & Inclusion Policy.
+ See page 194 for role and activities + See page 189 for role and activities Terms + See page 244 for role and activities
Terms of reference at bat.com/governance of reference at bat.com/governance Terms of reference at bat.com/governance
The Board has three principal Board Committees to which it Following each Committee meeting, the Chair of each Committee
has delegated certain responsibilities. The roles, memberships provides a full briefing to the Board, including on decisions made
and activities of these Committees are described in their and key matters discussed. Copies of the minutes of all
individual reports in this section. Committee meetings are circulated to all Board members
Each Committee has its own terms of reference, available to the extent appropriate.
at bat.com/governance. These are regularly reviewed and Directors that are unable to attend Board or Committee
updated where necessary, with revisions most recently meetings have the opportunity to provide their comments
introduced in 2024 as discussed on page 173. to the Chair in advance of the meeting.
Management Board
Management Board structure, role and responsibilities are discussed on page 173.
+ Delegation of Authorities: The Board delegates certain authorities to
executive management through the Group Statement of Delegated
Authorities to enable effective delivery of Group strategy (see page 173)
172
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership
Board Leadership How our governance framework supports our strategy
The Board is collectively responsible to our shareholders for the An overview of our governance framework, including the structure
long-term sustainable success of the Company and for the of the Board and its principal Committees, is set out on page 172.
Group’s strategic direction, purpose, values and governance. Certain key decisions and matters are reserved for the Board and
are not delegated to any Committees or executive management.
The Board provides the leadership necessary for the Group to
In 2024, the Board adopted an updated corporate governance
meet its business objectives within an appropriate framework for
framework, including revised terms of reference for its
risk management and internal control. The Board is also
Committees, ahead of the introduction of the 2024 UK Corporate
responsible for ensuring the Group has an effective executive
Governance Code (2024 Code) as it applies to the Company from
leadership team in place to execute the Group's strategy.
January 2025.
The Board maintains oversight of the Group's operations,
As part of our internal control framework, the Board has delegated
performance, governance, internal controls and compliance with
certain oversight authorities to executive management through
regulatory obligations. The Board’s primary responsibilities are
the Group Statement of Delegated Authorities (SoDA) to enable
summarised on page 172.
effective delivery of our strategy. Our SoDA is designed to
+ Matters reserved to the Board empower management at the right level of our organisation and
bat.com/governance promote accountability and ownership.
Board activities Overseeing the implementation of the Group strategy through
The Board has a comprehensive annual schedule of meetings our SoDA is one of the ways that the Board promotes robust
to review the Group’s strategy and monitor performance against corporate governance, risk management and internal controls
each strategic pillar and overall across the Group’s business across the Group. Our SoDA also supports our Board members
model. The Chair sets structured meeting agendas in consultation in managing their responsibility for promoting the success of the
with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. Company, in accordance with their directors’ duties. Our SoDA
was revised in 2024, including to reflect changes to the structure
The Board’s strategic priorities for 2024 are identified within the
of the Management Board and facilitate oversight of Group
key performance indicators set out on page 10. Its key activities
position statements.
during the year are set out on pages 176 to 177.
As part of the Board meeting in September 2024 convened in the
U.S. over four days, the Board held strategy sessions with members
of executive management to assess the Group's strategy and long-
term growth opportunities, strategic priorities, the competitive
environment, progress on key initiatives, and key challenges, risks
and mitigation plans.
The Board's consideration of stakeholder interests and
sustainability (including environmental and social matters) is
embedded across Board decision-making, strategy development
and risk assessment on an ongoing basis.
Examples of principal decisions made by the Board during the year,
and consideration given to the long-term consequences of
decisions, stakeholder interests, the impact of operations on the
environment and corporate reputation in those contexts, are
Holly Keller Koeppel speaking with colleagues at a discussion forum with
discussed on page 184. colleagues at a U.S. market briefing held in March 2024 in North Carolina, U.S.
Management Board
The Management Board is responsible for overseeing the
implementation of Group strategy and policies set by the
Board, and creating the framework for Group subsidiaries’
day-to-day operations.
Primary responsibilities of the Management Board include:
–Monitoring Group operating performance and ensuring Group,
regional and functional strategies and resources are effective
and aligned.
–Developing Group strategy for the Group’s product portfolio
for approval by the Board.
–Promoting our values and their effective embedment across the
organisation.
–Managing the central functions and overseeing the
management and development of Group talent.
Management Board structure
The Management Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and
comprises the Executive Directors and 13 senior executives whose
Luc Jobin attending a discussion forum with colleagues at a U.S. market
briefing held in March 2024 in North Carolina, U.S. names and roles are described on pages 170 to 171.
On 1 May 2024, Soraya Benchikh joined the Management Board
as Chief Financial Officer. On 17 September 2024, Kingsley Wheaton
was appointed to the new role of Chief Corporate Officer with
responsibility for the strategy and execution of the Group’s
Sustainable Future strategic pillar and Luciano Comin was appointed
to the role of Chief Marketing Officer as we continue to grow our
Smokeless New Categories products.
173
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership and Purpose
Values and Culture
Our Purpose and Values Shaping and Overseeing Culture
Our values act as a clear and authentic guide to shape our culture The Board oversees and monitors our culture to enable the Board
and behaviours. They underpin our purpose for A Better Tomorrow™ to be satisfied that it aligns with the Group's purpose, values and
and our ambition to build a Smokeless World. strategy, and is reflected consistently in our workplace policies and
Through our values, we strive to empower our people and foster practices. The Board supports our executive management team in
an exciting, rewarding workplace. All our people have a promoting our values in every area of our business.
responsibility to live our values through their behaviour, decision The Board assessed the Group’s culture in a range of contexts
making and everyday interactions with each other. throughout the year, including through workforce engagement.
Primary indicators used by the Board to gauge organisational
culture and examples of the Board’s oversight in 2024 are set out
below. The effectiveness of the Board's oversight of culture is
considered as part of the annual review of Board effectiveness and
performance (see pages 187 to 188).
Connecting directly with our people
Our Directors participate in visits to markets and operational sites
during the year. These opportunities provide an important lens
through which Directors can assess organisational culture in
context. Directors' visits are structured to allow for informal
opportunities for them to hear directly from colleagues at different
levels of the business and take an on-the-ground pulse check of
our corporate culture.
In March 2024, Luc Jobin, Murray Kessler and Holly Keller Koeppel
attended a market briefing in North Carolina, U.S. to hear first hand
from business colleagues about the growth of New Categories in
Our values have a clear connection with our strategy and purpose,
the U.S., digital strategy and consumer engagement, operations
emphasising diversity and inclusion; empowerment and collaboration;
initiatives, regulatory developments, and how the U.S. business is
and organisational agility, to deliver sustainable growth. The
fostering talent and embedding our values.
refreshed statement of our values was endorsed by the Board in
2023 in the context of evolution of the Group's strategy. It was Karen Guerra, Darrell Thomas and Serpil Timuray joined Luc to tour
created taking into account insights shared by our people across Group operations in Poland in May 2024. Their trip included a visit
the Group. to retail locations to see local trade marketing operations in
Warsaw, a town hall session with colleagues from our Central
An overview of the Board's approach to assessing the culture of the
Europe business unit, and a showcase of key capabilities at our
organisation and how our values are embedded follows below.
Digital Business Services Hub in Warsaw with frontline teams
+ Read more about our delivering digital transformation initiatives.
values on page 38
+ Read more about our
purpose on page 12
Delivering with integrity
How we execute our strategy is as important as its delivery.
Our values emphasise doing the right thing, which encompasses
acting with integrity, considering our impact on society and
thoughtfulness in decision making.
It is critical to the Group’s long-term success that all our people
act with high standards of integrity. We articulate this through our
Group Standards of Business Conduct (SoBC). Compliance with
our SoBC, in letter and spirit, is mandatory for all our people
worldwide.
Our SoBC is regularly reviewed and updated. A revised edition of
our SoBC was introduced in January 2024 (discussed on page 116),
supported by an awareness campaign across the organisation.
SoBC compliance was reinforced at the end of the year through Luc Jobin with Karen Guerra, Darrell Thomas and colleagues on a market visit to
training wrapped into our SoBC sign-off process across the Group, Warsaw, Poland in May 2024
with a focus on promoting an inclusive and respectful workplace.
Our SoBC includes our Lobbying and Engagement policy, which In September 2024, Kandy Anand and Véronique Laury with Luc
makes clear that all our engagement activities with governments, and Darrell attended a market visit in Japan to learn more about
regulators and other external stakeholders must be conducted in a the APMEA North business unit, the consumer landscape and how
principled manner, with transparency and integrity. It also includes colleagues apply our values. Their visit also included a marketing
our Speak Up policy, reflecting the Speak Up channels we make digital showcase and a fireside chat with local team members.
available for raising any concerns in confidence (anonymously if Our Chief Executive, Tadeu Marroco, and our Chief Financial
preferred) and without fear of reprisal. Officer, Soraya Benchikh, attended a series of market and site
The Audit Committee monitors SoBC allegations reported during visits during the year to engage with colleagues across the regions,
the year, and it reports to the Board to enable Board oversight of any discussing topics including strategic objectives, business
behaviour falling short of our standards and corrective actions taken. performance and embedding our values. Tadeu's agenda included
visits to Italy, Croatia, Brazil, South Africa, Japan, the U.S., and our
+ Read more about our commitment to delivery with integrity and our
Innovation Centres in Shenzhen, China and Southampton, UK.
Group Standards of Business Conduct on pages 118 to 119
Soraya's agenda included visits to Japan, South Korea, the U.S.,
Canada, China and France.
174
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Understanding workforce feedback and perspectives Staying informed
Insights from a range of engagement channels, including direct During the year, the Board regularly discussed organisational
interaction and through our employee listening framework culture with the Chief Executive and executive management,
(including employee surveys and employee focus group feedback) including through reports from the Chief Executive and the Chief
support the Directors' understanding of the views and sentiments People Officer provided at Board meetings.
of our people and oversight of organisational culture. Additionally, the Director, Operations, reported to the Board twice
Through our new employee listening framework, our Your Voice during the year on workforce health and safety standards and
Engagement survey is now conducted on an annual basis. It performance, including progress towards zero accident site
includes questions to gather feedback on employees' commitment targets and solutions adopted to enhance vehicle and driver safety
to achieving goals, their sense of energy and motivation and their standards and reinforce a safe driving culture.
views on opportunities for improvement. In December 2024, the In 2024, the Board endorsed the introduction of our new people
Board considered the findings of the Your Voice Engagement strategy and reviewed progress of key initiatives mapped to the
survey and action areas identified, reviewed on pages 182 to 183. strategic intentions of that strategy, including values activation
Further discussion of how our Board engages with our people through comprehensive 'Embedding our Values' activities across
through our workforce engagement channels, and is kept informed the Group and the introduction of an employee listening
of their interests and perspectives, is set out on pages 182 to 183 framework to augment the effectiveness of existing workforce
and 235. engagement channels across the Group (discussed at pages 182
to 183).
Acting on culture insights
As part of the Board's consideration of culture across the
organisation, in October 2024, the Board reviewed the outcomes
of the values activation survey conducted during 2024. This survey
was designed to act as a 'pulse-check' of awareness of our values
across the Group, how these are currently demonstrated by
people across our organisation and the depth of commitment
to embodying them in future. Over 6,000 of our people across
a balanced cross-section of the Group's regions and functions
participated in this survey.
Findings overall indicated a high awareness of our values and that
there is strong and consistent belief in bringing our values to life
across all levels of the organisation. For example, 94% of
participants indicated their full support of our values (+3ppt
compared to FMCG comparator1). Findings also indicated
opportunities to better embed our value of 'Empowered
through trust'.
Kandy Anand participating in a marketing digital showcase with colleagues in
Tokyo, Japan in September 2024 Taking into account the outcomes of the values activation survey
and input from employee focus groups to discuss pressure points,
the Board discussed opportunities identified to further promote
Oversight of Group reward frameworks
appropriate empowerment of management at the right levels
In 2024, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the design
within the organisation to enhance organisational effectiveness.
principles and operation of elements of executive management
As an outcome, several action areas were identified for
and wider workforce performance and reward frameworks, and
implementation, facilitated by the Chief People Officer and
their alignment with the Group's strategy and values.
through further consultation with employee focus groups. The
In this context, the Committee developed proposals for the 2025 Board will continue to assess the effectiveness with which our
Directors' Remuneration Policy (set out at pages 205 to 226) and values are embedded through 2025.
also considered initiatives to enhance the alignment of the reward
framework for senior management with the strategic ambitions of
our people strategy and delivery in line with our values through
updates to incentive schemes (discussed at page 245).
Oversight of business integrity and compliance
During the year, the Audit Committee received regular reports
from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the outcomes of internal
audits conducted in 2024 and action plans agreed with
management where areas for improvement were identified.
The Audit Committee also reviewed regular reports from the
Group Head of Business Integrity & Compliance on the Group's
Delivery with Integrity programme, compliance with the SoBC
and reports from Speak Up channels, and reported to the Board
on these topics.
Luc Jobin with colleagues visiting trade marketing operations in Warsaw,
Poland in May 2024
Note:
1. Score is benchmarked against our global comparator group for Fast Moving Consumer
Goods (FMCG) companies.
175
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership and Purpose
Board Activities in 2024
Quality Growth
Focus areas for the Board included:
Inspiring New Categories –Oversight of the marketing strategic –Reviewing the approach to driving
Innovations & Brands leadership agenda for the Group's value from combustibles to fund New
product portfolios, deployment through Categories investment, including
–Reviewing New Categories
market archetypes and approach to through portfolio complexity
performance at Group, regional and
consumer and customer engagement. reduction, revenue growth
top market levels against strategy
and key performance indicators, –Oversight of a global settlement with management and marketing
including New Categories revenue, Philip Morris International Inc. that spend efficiency.
contribution and market share. resolved all ongoing patent –Reviewing developments in regulation
infringement litigation with the of combustible products, with focus
–Reviewing the outlook for New
Group related to Heated Products on the regulation of menthol and
Categories performance for the
and Vapour products. flavours in the U.S. and plastic waste.
Group, regions and the wider
industry, consumer product Managed Combustible Transition Beyond Nicotine Foundations
adoption and developments –Reviewing combustibles performance –Oversight of strategy to develop
in the competitor landscape. at Group, regional and top market future sustainable growth
–Reviewing the approach to levels against strategy and key opportunities for the Group beyond
investment in New Categories and performance indicators, including nicotine in the Wellbeing and
developments in the innovation revenue and value share growth. Stimulation category.
pipeline across the Vuse, glo and Velo –Reviewing combustibles industry –Reviewing progress of the Ryde:
product portfolios driven by outlook, trading environment and functional shots pilots in Australia and
consumer insights and foresights. competitor landscape from global Canada and the U.S. commercial test.
and regional perspectives.
Sustainable Future
Focus areas for the Board included:
Tobacco Harm Reduction –Reviewing the regulatory landscape –Oversight of the Group's sustainability
Acceptance applicable to New Categories across strategy, including climate-related
top markets, including status of the issues, opportunities and risks for
–Oversight of the Group's approach to
Vuse PMTA in the U.S. and the Group.
accelerating tobacco harm reduction
(THR) acceptance through scientific developments in regulation of single- –Assessing Group sustainability
research and advocacy, including launch use vapour products, flavours in New performance for the year against
of Omni™ (discussed on page 180) Categories products, and other applicable targets, including
and embedding THR understanding regulatory developments. environmental performance and
through the organisation. –Monitoring insights on the impact of progress towards achieving climate
growth in illicit products and regulatory targets for 50% reduction in Scope 1
–Monitoring engagement with
enforcement activities to combat illicit and 2 emissions by 2030, renewable
scientific and public health
trade, in the context of combustible energy, water stewardship, waste and
stakeholders on THR science
products and New Categories. recycling, and priorities for the Group's
and awareness.
–Reviewing excise tax developments sustainability agenda.
–Reviewing the Group's approach
applicable to the Group's product –Reviewing plans for the development
to scientific stewardship of New
portfolio in various markets. of sustainability metrics and targets
Categories and Beyond Nicotine
for 2025 and beyond.
products underpinning the Sustainability & Integrity
development of our product portfolios. –Reviewing perspectives of the Group’s
–Oversight of the Group's approach to
key stakeholders, the Group’s response
Shaping the Landscape Leading in Sustainability & Integrity and
to those perspectives, and the
–Reviewing the strategic agenda for progress of key initiatives. effectiveness of engagement
the Corporate & Regulatory Affairs –Introduction of transformation metrics mechanisms.
function and approach to proactive to enhance investors' understanding of
–Approving the annual Modern Slavery
narrative, purpose-driven advocacy how the Group is delivering against
Statement and annual Conflict
to support a level regulatory playing strategic objectives.
Minerals Statement.
field, and engagement with
–Oversight of the Group's glidepath
regulators and other external –Reviewing updates on compliance
towards the ambition for 50% of
stakeholders. matters, including allegations of
revenue from Smokeless products
misconduct, reports from Speak Up
–Oversight of progress of initiatives by 2035.
channels and investigations, and the
to demonstrate the Group as a
Group’s Delivery with Integrity
responsible industry leader in New
programme initiatives.
Categories, including publication of
our 'Commitment to Responsible
Vaping Products'.
176
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dynamic Business
Focus areas for the Board included:
Exciting, Winning Company Operational Excellence Capital Effectiveness
–Approving the appointment of Holly –Reviewing U.S. business operations –Reviewing Group financial
Keller Koeppel as Senior Independent and progress of the U.S. business, performance against key
Director, Darrell Thomas as Audit including macro-economic challenges, performance metrics, current outlook,
Committee Chair and Kandy Anand portfolio management, and route-to- challenges and opportunities for
as Remuneration Committee Chair. market and digital execution. growth in each region, and FX
–Oversight of Non-Executive Director –Reviewing the Group risk register and impacts.
succession planning activities. risk appetite in the context of strategic –Reviewing Group half-year results,
–Approving changes to the structure objectives and emerging risks, with trading updates, year-end results and
and composition of the Management focus on risks relating to climate the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
Board on the recommendation of the change, circular economy, cyber –Approving interim dividend proposals
Nominations Committee. resilience and AI, and identification of and assessing distributable reserves
–Determining independence of Non- the Group's sustainability impacts, risks prior to authorising dividend
Executive Directors prior to and opportunities (IROs). payments.
proposing them for appointment or –Reviewing development of the Group's –Determining Group viability, taking
re-appointment (as applicable) at the strategic market footprint and market into account current position and
Company’s AGM. archetypes framework to further drive Principal Risks.
effective resource allocation and
–Approving revisions to Non-Executive –Approving the Group budget,
progress in reduction of geographic,
Director fees. reviewing application of the Group's
supply chain and product complexities.
–Reviewing outcomes of the internal capital allocation strategy, and
review of the performance and –Monitoring resilience of the Group's oversight of resource allocation to
effectiveness of the Board, its New Category supplier sourcing enable strategy execution.
strategy and approach to developing
Committees and Directors in 2024. –Assessing capital efficiency in the
innovation through strategic partners
–Monitoring and assessing to maintain a resilient New Categories context of cash generation and cash
organisational culture, its alignment supply chain. flow performance, financing capacity,
with the Group’s purpose, values and cost of debt and investments.
–Reviewing development of strategic
strategy and the outcomes of the –Oversight of the Group's disposal of a
partnerships to optimise the Group's
values activation survey. portion of its shareholding in ITC
sourcing network and asset footprint.
–Endorsing the introduction of the Limited, announced in March 2024.
–Oversight of the Group's Digital
Group's new people strategy and –Authorising a share buy-back
Business Solutions (DBS) strategy to
oversight of progress against programme for 2024 and 2025.
drive productivity through enhanced
strategic ambitions. use of technology and responsible use –Reviewing compliance with Group
–Reviewing the introduction of the of AI, build resilience, and to simplify the financing principles, including liquidity
employee listening framework to Group's technology architecture. and net debt/EBITDA.
enhance effectiveness of Group –Reviewing opportunities for the –Reviewing investments in associates
workforce engagement and Group's Global Business Solutions of the Group and their financial
understanding feedback from organisation to embed end-to-end performance.
workforce engagement channels.
process excellence. –Reviewing the Group's revolving
–Reviewing health and safety –Approving revisions to the Group's credit facilities, refinancings, and debt
performance for the preceding year, corporate governance framework and issuance programmes.
targets for the coming year and
Statement of Delegated Authorities. –Reviewing share price performance
action plans.
and investor and broker perspectives.
–Reviewing the funding positions
–Reviewing the Group's insurance
relating to the Group’s post-
coverage.
employment benefit schemes.
–Reviewing the status of litigation
involving Group companies, including
updates on the Companies' Creditors
Arrangement Act (CCAA) settlement
process in relation to Imperial Tobacco
Canada (discussed at page 352).
177
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership and Purpose
Board Engagement with Stakeholders
We understand the strategic importance of stakeholders
to our business. Our Directors value engagement with our
shareholders and wider stakeholders to understand their
views and inform the Board’s decision-making, strategy
development and risk assessment.
Shareholder and A series of investor roadshows hosted by Investor meetings 2024
our Chief Executive and Chief Financial
Geographic scope (%)
Investor Engagement Officer was held during 2024, including
meetings with investors from the UK, North
Our Board is committed to open and America, South Africa, Europe and Asia. We
transparent dialogue with shareholders also hosted a Capital Markets Day event in
and investors to ensure their views are October 2024 at our Innovation Centre in
understood and considered. Southampton, UK, discussed on page 179.
The Chair, the Chief Executive and the Remuneration Policy Engagement
Chief Financial Officer’s annual In October and November 2024, our Chair,
engagement programme is discussed Remuneration Committee Chair, Chief
below. The Senior Independent Director People Officer, Group Head of Reward and
and other Non-Executive Directors are also Group Head of Investor Relations hosted a
available to meet with major shareholders remuneration policy roadshow. Feedback
as appropriate. from participating shareholders indicated
broad support for our remuneration
Annual investor relations programme
approach and how this is intended to drive
A global engagement programme is
shareholder value. Feedback also indicated United Kingdom 49
conducted annually with shareholders,
appreciation for the opportunity to engage
other investors, potential investors and United States 31
on the rationale for proposed revisions to
analysts. The investor relations (IR)
incentive scheme metrics. Perspectives South Africa 9
programme is led by our Chair, Chief
received through this engagement
Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Europe (ex UK) 4
programme have been taken into account
supported by the IR team.
to refine policy proposals and enable them Rest of world 7
In total we hosted 621 investor meetings to be focused and relevant to shareholders.
in 2024, covering 78% of our shareholder Details of how the Remuneration
base with broad geographic coverage. Committee has taken shareholder Investor meetings 2024
Utilising both physical and virtual event perspectives into account in shaping the Investor type (%)
formats, our IR programme included proposed new remuneration policy are set
attendance at five global investor out on pages 205 to 226.
conferences, nine investor roadshows and
Shareholder communications
two salesforce briefings.
We continued to innovate our shareholder
Our Chief Executive and Interim Finance
communications approach in 2024, which
Director presented our Full-Year results to
included the introduction of new IR
investors in February 2024, and our Chief
materials and digital tools. Our investor
Executive and Chief Financial Officer
website enhances our digital interaction
presented our Half-Year results in July 2024
with investors. It includes our investment
and our pre-close trading updates in June
case, our approach to sustainability,
and December 2024. These events all
shareholder FAQ and regular
included investor Q&A calls and the
consensus sharing.
presentations and transcripts are
Our Investor News hub collates our press
published on bat.com.
releases, news and features together in
In March 2024, our Chief Executive hosted a
one place for investors, with an automated Existing shareholders 78
fireside chat at the UBS Global Consumer and
news alerts service available to keep
Retail Conference in New York, U.S., watched Prospects 22
investors up to date on developments. Our
by 250 viewers online, alongside a series of
investor website covers live broadcasts of
meetings held at the conference with
events, including results, conferences and
international investors. our Capital Markets Day, with playback 621
In June 2024, our Chief Executive and Chief slides and transcripts available online.
Financial Officer hosted investor meetings at
To complement our investor website, our
the Deutsche Bank Global Consumer
new IR app was launched in 2024. The app Meetings in 2024
Conference in Paris, France, engaging with
provides increased accessibility to our
over 100 international investors and providing
financial data and reports, share price
updates on how our strategic discipline and
information, and investor relations materials
focused investment are driving positive
by our stakeholders. Our new IR factsheet,
momentum.
which provides a snapshot of our investment
case, was also launched, and is featured on
both our website and the IR app.
178
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Spotlight: Capital Markets Day 2024 How the Board considers shareholder
and investor views
The Chair, the Chief Executive, Chief
Financial Officer and Remuneration
Committee Chair regularly update the
Board on their dialogue with shareholders
and investors. The Board also receives
updates from the Group Head of Investor
Relations and our brokers on stock
performance and on our shareholders' key
issues, perspectives and expectations.
Shareholder and investor perspectives
considered by the Board in 2024 included
the Group's ongoing transformation
journey, U.S. market dynamics and outlook,
New Categories strategy and performance,
capital allocation, changes to the structure
of the Management Board, regulatory
developments and enforcement, and our
sustainability strategy.
Building a Smokeless World
The Board takes shareholder feedback into
account in its decision-making and when
On 16 October 2024, our Chief Executive and
developing the Group strategy. This is
Chief Financial Officer hosted a Capital Markets
discussed further on page 184, including in
Day event at our Innovation Centre in
relation to capital allocation and
Southampton, UK. I’m confident development of new transformation
This event included keynote speeches from our metrics to enhance understanding of our
Management Board members and other senior that we have progress against strategic objectives, and
leaders, laboratory tours and interactive on pages 205 to 226 in relation to the
category exhibitions. Over 80 attendees the right strategy, Directors' Remuneration Policy and
representing shareholders, potential investors executive remuneration.
and analysts joined the event in person, with 370
that we have the Annual General Meeting (AGM)
further attendees from the UK, Europe, North
Our AGM is an opportunity for further
America, South Africa, Asia and the Middle East
capabilities to shareholder engagement, for the Chair
joining virtually via webcast.
to set out progress, and for the Board to
A variety of topics were reviewed at our Capital deliver, and that answer questions.
Markets Day event. Our Chief Executive outlined
Shareholders were welcomed in person to
our vision to Build a Smokeless World and to
we have the attend our AGM in 2024, at which the Chair
deliver a profitable transformation and our Chief
reflected on business performance in 2023
Financial Officer presented our capital allocation
right people to and discussed the outlook for 2024. The
strategy and growth algorithm. Other topics
Chair and other Directors also responded
reviewed included our R&D and innovations
development ecosystem, multi-category deliver profitable to shareholder questions. Shareholders
were also given the opportunity to submit
insights, New Categories brand building,
questions about AGM business in advance
managing combustibles value, U.S. market transformation.
of the meeting and responses to the
opportunities, Tobacco Harm Reduction and
queries received were published at
Omni™, and our organisational culture.
bat.com/agm.
Tadeu Marroco
Feedback from our Capital Markets Day
indicated that the event was well received and Chief Executive Voting on resolutions presented to the
AGM was carried out by way of a poll in
that attendees appreciated the opportunity to
accordance with the Company's Articles of
engage with our Management Board and
Association and all resolutions as set out in
experience how the Group's science, innovation
the Notice of Meeting were passed with no
and breadth of our people's capabilities can
significant vote against any resolution. All
combine to deliver our purpose and strategy.
Directors attended our 2024 AGM other
+ Capital Markets Day event materials available at than Dimitri Panayotopoulos due to illness.
bat.com/ir and via the new Investor Relations app
179
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership and Purpose
Board Engagement with Stakeholders
Continued
Wider Stakeholder
Consumers
Engagement
A broad range of stakeholders are important There is well-established and effective
'Love our Consumer' is one of our values
to the Group at local, regional and functional engagement with the Group’s key
and consumers are the core of everything
levels. Key stakeholders are strategically stakeholders, enabling the Board to
we do. Consumer-led product innovation
important to our business and essential understand their perspectives. The Board
is central to achieving our purpose and
to our ability to generate long-term, reviewed the approach to engagement with
we believe that our multi-category
sustainable value. the Group's key stakeholders in 2024,
approach is the most effective way to
We identify them by applying an including how engagement is carried out appeal to the diverse preferences of
established stakeholder engagement across the Group, stakeholders’ adult nicotine consumers worldwide.
framework, which takes into account perspectives, and how the Board is kept
strategic objectives and risks to the Group. informed of those perspectives where We engage with our consumers through
The Board's assessment of key stakeholders engagement is not at Board level. The Board extensive market research activities and
is further informed by the assessment of will continue to monitor the ongoing sales interactions, led by our marketing
the Group's material sustainability impacts, effectiveness of stakeholder engagement. teams.
risks and opportunities (IROs) (discussed Where the Board does not engage directly During the year, the Board was briefed by
further on pages 70 to 71). with our stakeholders, it is kept updated by the Chief Executive, Chief Marketing
Our key stakeholders are referenced in our reports from management so Directors Officer and other senior managers on our
maintain an effective understanding of innovations pipeline across all portfolio
business model on pages 14 to 17, with an
overview of their importance, what matters what matters to them and can draw on categories, how these focus on satisfying
to them, and how we engage and respond these perspectives, including in Board adult consumer preferences and are
to them on pages 18 to 19. decision-making and strategy development. driven by consumer insights and
foresights. The Board was also updated
The imperative of transparency of An overview of how the Board engaged on consumer engagement initiatives and
engagement is built into relevant Group with wider stakeholders and maintained its use of future-fit marketing technology to
policies, including our SoBC and specific understanding of their interests during the execute an integrated marketing mix
frameworks for stakeholder engagement. year is set out below. across the retail landscape.
In addition, the Board was briefed on key
consumer perspectives and how we
Spotlight respond, including how we respond to
consumer concerns about the
environmental impact of plastic
products; consumer perspectives on
THR and feedback for more information
on the role of New Categories products
in THR to help consumers make
informed product choices; and consumer
expectations in respect of preventing
underage access to tobacco and nicotine
products.
The Board has overseen the introduction
of our updated Responsible Marketing
Principles, applicable to our nicotine
TM
Omni : Forward Thinking for a Smokeless World products and brands, implemented
across the Group in 2024. Our
Responsible Marketing Principles take
An important step was taken in the The launch of Omni™ was held in London
account of consumer expectations
Group's journey to encourage Tobacco with more than 150 external attendees,
for responsible marketing practices and
Harm Reduction (THR) acceptance in including representatives from our
underage access prevention. The Board
September 2024, with the launch of a investors, suppliers, the scientific
also oversaw the introduction of our
science and evidential case for THR in research community and other
'Commitment to Responsible Vaping
the form of ‘Omni™: Forward Thinking stakeholders.
Products', which communicates the
for a Smokeless World’. Our Board This was followed by a launch event for actions we are taking to demonstrate
oversaw the development of Omni™, our people across the Group, both in the Group as a responsible industry
an evidence-based, accessible and person with our Chief Executive and leader in New Categories.
dynamic resource that sets out the through a live webcast, attended by over
Group's commitment to Building a 2,500 colleagues.
Smokeless World and offers insights OmniTM is intended to foster societal + Read our Responsible Marketing
into our scientific and real-world Principles at bat.com/sustainability-
evidence of THR in action. Omni™ dialogue and offer a dynamic resource to and-esg/governance-and-ethics/
brings together independent scientific be developed over time with feedback marketing-our-products-responsibly
from our stakeholders. Looking ahead,
studies, the Group's own research into
we intend to measure its impact on + Read our Commitment to Responsible
innovations and examples of THR in
perceptions across our stakeholders. Vaping Products at bat.com/
action. It also looks to answer some of responsible-vaping-products
the most challenging questions facing
our industry and society. + Read more about our approach
to engaging with consumers on
+ Learn more about OmniTM pages 18, 60 to 63 and 76 to 77
at asmokelessworld.com
180
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Customers Suppliers Society
Retailer, wholesaler and distributor Effective relationships with leaf We recognise our responsibility to wider
relationships are essential for driving suppliers, contracted farmers and society to reduce the health, environmental
growth and embedding responsible suppliers of direct materials and and social impacts of our business. We
marketing practices across our routes indirect services are essential for a seek to meaningfully contribute to
to market. Our customer relationships resilient and efficient supply chain. debate on tobacco harm reduction and
and engagement programmes are These relationships are managed day- the regulatory environment in which we
managed at local market and business to-day by the Group’s Operations operate. Across the Group, we engage
unit levels. function and at local market level. with stakeholders in scientific and public
During the year, the Board was updated The Board oversees the Group’s supply health communities, governments and
by the Chief Executive, the Chief chain and leaf sourcing strategies, and regulators, non-governmental
Marketing Officer and other senior is updated on progress in sustainable organisations (NGOs) and local
managers on the global retail agriculture and farmer livelihoods communities, with engagement
environment, customer engagement programmes through briefings and managed by local market, business
and the promotion of responsible strategic reviews provided by the unit and functional teams.
marketing practices through our route Director, Operations and other The Board is briefed on engagement
to market distribution channels. members of senior management. with, and perspectives held by,
The Board was briefed on the roll-out of In the context of leaf supply, the Board scientific communities, regulators,
underage access prevention training to was briefed on perspectives of public health bodies and other
employees across the Group, our suppliers and contracted farmers and stakeholders. During the year, this
marketing agencies and retailer how we respond to feedback, including included briefings on engagement
representatives across multiple how we address the risk of child labour conducted to accelerate THR
markets; and on customer engagement in our supply chains and the impact understanding and acceptance and
initiatives including developments in assessments we undertake in leaf updates on our contribution to external
multi-category merchandising and sourcing countries to identify and roundtable events, such as the Global
digital marketing technologies to address root causes; how we support Forum on Nicotine and the Global
enhance customer experience and age suppliers to reduce Scope 3 supply Tobacco and Nicotine Forum.
verification procedures. The Board was chain carbon emissions; and the steps The Board also considered how the
also updated on engagement with we take to assess deforestation and Group responds to stakeholder
trade customers in the U.S. to support other biodiversity risks. feedback on environmental impact of
environmental management initiatives In the context of direct materials our operations and how we address
and combating illicit trade. suppliers, in 2024 the Board reviewed sustainability challenges, such as
In 2024, several of the Directors had the the strategic leadership agenda for through implementation of more
opportunity to hear first hand from U.S. delivering innovation, including sustainable packaging for New
business representatives about the development and integration of Categories products in Europe and
approach to developing trade customer strategic supplier capabilities into our progress against science-based
partnerships as part of the U.S. market New Categories sourcing strategy and emissions reduction targets.
briefing in March 2024 and to visit trade development of strategic partnerships The Board reviews updates from the
marketing operations in Warsaw, beyond nicotine. legal and corporate and regulatory
Poland in May 2024 (discussed further The Board was also updated on affairs teams, covering engagement
on page 174). supplier perspectives and how we with governments, regulators and anti-
As part of its annual agenda, the Audit respond. Examples include our illicit trade collaborations. The Board is
Committee oversees compliance with approach to driving innovation and also kept informed on engagement
the Group’s responsible marketing collaborative working through our 'Be with local communities, for example,
framework and underage access Supplier' programme and supplier community investment projects in
prevention procedures. workshops at our Innovations Centre in relation to afforestation programmes
Shenzhen, China; and how we address and child labour prevention projects in
+ Read more about our approach supply chain carbon emissions and collaboration with the industry, local
to customer engagement conduct responsible water governments and NGOs.
Pages 19, 76 to 77 and 118 to 119
stewardship. Non-Executive Directors regularly
The Board reviewed our annual Modern attend the Corporate Audit Committee
Slavery Statement and annual Conflict and Regional Audit Committees, where
UK Companies Act: Minerals Statement, and the measures societal and community perspectives at
Business relationships implemented with our suppliers during regional and local levels are discussed,
This section summarises how the the year to mitigate supply chain risks. and the Audit Committee reviews
feedback from these Committees. The
Directors have regard to the need to
Audit Committee is also updated on our
foster business relationships with
engagement with tax authorities on
customers, suppliers and other
material tax matters and has oversight
external stakeholders. Further
of political contributions made in the U.S.
information is provided on pages 18 to
+ Read our Modern Slavery Statement
19 and 184, including information at bat.com/msa
about the effect that regard from the
Directors had on Board discussions + Read more about our approach + Read more about our engagement
to engaging with suppliers on Pages with governments and wider society
and decision-making. 19, 39, 66 to 69, 79 to 84, 105 to 109 and Pages 19 and 60 to 115
118 to 119
181
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership and Purpose
Board Engagement with Stakeholders
Continued
Holistic approach to engagement with our people
Our People
Directors' market Chief Executive’s Let’s
We recognise that our people are critical to
and site visits Talk live Q&A forum
our success. Fostering an exciting, winning
organisation is a core part of the Dynamic
Our Directors participate in market Our Chief Executive hosted three live
Business pillar of our strategy and the
and site visits and local town hall Let's Talk forums in webcast format,
Board is committed to regular and
sessions during the year, allowing open to all colleagues across the
meaningful engagement with our
them to hear directly from Group to ask him any questions. Our
workforce and to taking their perspectives
colleagues at different levels across Chief Executive also hosted further
into account in decision-making and
the organisation and discuss their Q&A sessions in town hall forums as
strategy development.
perspectives (see page 175). part of his programme of regional
Our approach to workforce engagement and market visits through the year.
Our Board is kept informed of the views
and perspectives of our people across the
Group through a combination of well- Global, Functional and Global Leadership
established engagement methods in place
Regional webcasts Meeting (GLM)
across multiple channels and at different
levels of our organisation. and town hall sessions
Our Chief Executive hosts the annual
These channels, highlighted to the right,
GLM for around 120 of the Group's
include direct engagement through Briefings and townhall sessions, in
senior leaders to engage on the
Directors’ market and site visits, including person and by webcast with Q&A,
Group's strategic priorities. Our GLM
participation in town hall and Q&A sessions are held at a global, functional and
in 2024 was held in Athens, Greece.
(see page 174); the Executive Directors' regional level through the year,
programme of regional and market visits including 'A Better Tomorrow - Live'
across our regions to connect with local with our Chief Executive and Chief
employees; our Chief Executive's 'Let's Talk' Financial Officer to discuss strategic
live Q&A forum series open to all our priorities and performance.
workforce across the Group; and live
webcasts presented by our Chief Executive
Works Councils and Speak Up channels
and Chief Financial Officer to talk about our
performance, results, strategic objectives, European Employee
Our independently-managed Speak
business outlook and embedding our
Council meetings Up channels are available online and
culture, including Q&A.
by telephone 24 hours a day in a
Overall, there were 44 market visits or Works Councils and European range of local languages to allow
other engagement forums attended by one Employee Council meetings provide anyone working for or with the
or more of our Directors in 2024, structured engagement forums Group to raise any concern on a
comprising 4 in the U.S., 14 in the Americas in various markets across Europe, confidential basis and anonymously
and Europe region, 7 in the Asia-Pacific, in accordance with applicable if they prefer (see page 118).
Middle East and Africa region and 19 with regulations.
global functions.
In addition to direct engagement activities,
our Directors are kept informed of the
views and perspectives of our people
arising from engagement at different levels Enhanced in 2024 through introduction of our
of the organisation (for example, town halls, employee listening framework
employee focus groups, works councils,
and regional, function and local webcasts),
Our new employee listening
including through reports from the Chief
framework was introduced
People Officer, and from the Group Head of
across the Group in 2024, and
Business Integrity & Compliance in relation
will be further deployed in 2025,
to Speak Up channels.
to enhance existing engagement
Employee listening framework channels and enable more
In 2024, our approach to engagement with frequent opportunities for
our people was enhanced through the employees to share their
introduction of our employee listening feedback.
framework, summarised to the right. This
It includes our global Your Voice
framework facilitates more frequent
Engagement survey as an annual
opportunities for employees to share their
core index survey, along with
feedback and also empowers line
more frequent pulse surveys to
managers to drive actions at their team
track progress, topic surveys for
level in response to feedback.
deeper insight, employee life-
As part of this enhanced approach, the cycle surveys and other tools to
Board reviews an annual summary of the support a more holistic
feedback received through the framework, understanding of the sentiments
with outcomes and actions provided back and perspectives of our people.
to employees across the Group.
182
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Effectiveness of workforce 2024 global listening initiatives –How we focus on driving innovation:
engagement channels Global listening initiatives conducted Taking into account feedback from
The Board continues to assess the across the Group in 2024 included: colleagues, particularly from our
effectiveness of channels for engagement –Our annual Your Voice Engagement operations and marketing functions, we
with our people and how engagement survey, open to all employees across the have embedded an enhanced approach
informs Board decision-making and Group and focused on employee to developing consumer insights and
strategy development. engagement. 92% of employees across management of intellectual property
during the year.
Given the spread, scale and diversity of the the Group participated in this survey.
Group’s workforce, the Board continues to –A values activation survey, to review –How we maintain a competitive reward
consider it effective to use the combination awareness of our values across the framework: In 2024, we reviewed design
of established channels discussed on page Group, how these are currently principles and operational elements of
182, augmented in 2024 with the demonstrated by people across our the Group's reward framework for our
introduction of the employee listening organisation and depth of commitment management population and the
framework and reporting to the Board on to embodying them in future. Feedback alignment of the reward framework with
the views of the workforce during the year. was received from over 6,000 employees our strategy and values, overseen by the
Remuneration Committee, and taking
All Group company employees, including from a balanced cross-section across the
into account feedback from colleagues
individuals undertaking permanent roles Group's regions and functions.
across our management population.
on fixed-term contracts, are offered –A Tobacco Harm Reduction survey to Through this review, updates were
the opportunity to engage and provide gauge understanding of the Group's introduced to our management reward
their feedback through a combination position on THR, conducted across 3,000 framework to maintain competitiveness
of these channels. employees focused on this topic across of reward and to enhance alignment with
This approach enables the Board as a the Group. our strategy and values (discussed at
whole to understand the perspectives of The Board reviewed the outcomes of page 245).
our workforce received through the full these listening initiatives and discussed –How we bring our 'Empowered through
breadth of engagement channels at levels actions identified. trust' value to life: The values activation
across the organisation.
Examples of key themes arising from survey identified empowerment as a key
Examples of key themes and priorities from listening initiatives and how we respond priority given feedback from colleagues.
workforce feedback considered by the –How we develop talent: In view of Building on insights gained from focus
Board, and how that feedback has been feedback from colleagues across the groups conducted with senior
responded to during the year, are Group, an integrated talent management management, a review was conducted to
discussed on this page. framework was launched in 2024, understand specific challenges and
+ Read more about our Your Voice supported by refreshed professional actionable solutions. This has led to the
Engagement survey on page 111 capability frameworks for Group development of targeted actions to be
functions available to colleagues in digital implemented from 2025 to enhance
format, alongside mentoring empowerment at the right levels across
programmes for women in senior the organisation, including review of
management roles. governance procedures and
development of focused agendas for the
top market briefings and other regional
forums.
UK Companies Act:
Employee engagement
This section summarises the Directors'
approach to engaging with the Group's
workforce, including employees of UK
Group companies, and how the
Directors have regard to their interests.
Further information is provided on pages
18 and 111, and pages 232 to 235 in
relation to remuneration matters,
including information about the effect
that regard from Directors had on Board
discussions and decision-making.
Tadeu Marroco leading a Q&A session with colleagues from our South Eastern Europe business unit in
Rome and Trieste, Italy in May 2024
183
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Board Leadership and Purpose
Principal Decisions
Made by the Board
Outlined below are examples of principal decisions made by the Board over
the year, highlighting how the Board considered relevant factors, including
key stakeholder perspectives, the environment, reputation for high
standards of business conduct, and the long-term impact of decisions.
Our key stakeholders and how the Board engages with them are discussed further on pages 18
to 19. Board activities in 2024 are set out in pages 176 to 177.
Balanced capital allocation
Through the Board's review of capital allocation during the year and approval of the 2025 budget, Key stakeholder perspectives
consideration was given to the resources required to deliver the Group's growth algorithm. The taken into account
Board's review took account of the focus areas of driving quality revenue and sustainable profit Shareholders and Investors
growth, acceleration of New Categories contribution, and cash generation, supported by targeted Consumers
investment and portfolio optimisation. The Board also took account of the importance of continued
Customers
de-leveraging in line with our guidance and enabling returns to our shareholders, including through
Suppliers
a share buy-back programme applying the proceeds of the Group's sale of a portion of its
shareholding in ITC Limited, and through progressive dividends. Our people
The 2025 budget also takes account of the resources needed to deliver our sustainability targets, Governments and wider society
including those aimed at reducing the environmental impacts of our operations, continue
investment in scientific research and product stewardship, maintain competitive remuneration for
our people and develop effective partnerships with our suppliers and customers.
Introduction of our transformation metrics
At our Capital Markets Day event in 2024, we launched a focused set of new transformation Key stakeholder perspectives
metrics to concisely articulate the Group's progress against our strategic objectives. taken into account
The Board worked closely with the executive management team during 2024 to develop these Shareholders and Investors
transformation metrics to respond to perspectives raised by our shareholders and other investors. Our people
For example, how is the Group transforming (indicated through Smokeless product revenue as a Governments and wider society
proportion of total revenue) and what is the impact of capital allocation decisions on shareholders
and debt investors. We plan to continue to report on our performance against the transformation
scorecard to enhance our stakeholders' understanding of our year-on-year progress.
Accelerating Tobacco Harm Reduction acceptance
In 2024, the Board oversaw the Group's approach to accelerating THR understanding and Key stakeholder perspectives
acceptance, underpinned by scientific research and proactive stakeholder engagement. Our aim is taken into account
to make constructive and evidence-based contributions to inform dialogue with our stakeholders, Shareholders and Investors
including scientific and public health communities, governments and regulators, and our consumers. Our people
The Board's oversight during the year included development and launch of ‘Omni™: Forward Consumers
Thinking for a Smokeless World', a science and evidential case for THR that collates independent
Customers
scientific studies, the Group's own research and case studies of THR in action. Omni™ is presented
Suppliers
as an open invitation for ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders on some of the key challenges
facing the industry and wider society. The Board also reviewed future focus areas for enabling THR Governments and wider society
understanding and acceptance, including next steps in THR scientific research.
Developing the 2025 Directors' Remuneration Policy
In preparation for the Board's recommendation of the 2025 Directors' Remuneration Policy to Key stakeholder perspectives
shareholders at the 2025 AGM, the Remuneration Committee conducted an extensive review of taken into account
the policy arrangements during 2024 and continuing into 2025, overseen by the Board and Shareholders and Investors
developed through engagement with major shareholders and governance advisory bodies Our people
(discussed further at pages 205 to 226).
Governments and wider society
As part of the review, consideration was given to maintaining alignment between our strategic
objectives and executive remuneration outcomes, with particular focus on Smokeless products
growth, stewardship of the Group's transformation and financial performance, while supporting
the ability to attract and retain talent in the international market. The review was also informed by
evolving market practice and corporate governance regulations, shareholder and governance
advisory body guidelines and independent advice from the Remuneration Committee's UK and U.S.
remuneration consultants.
We define principal decisions as those decisions and discussions by the Board that are strategic or material to the Group and those of significance to any
of our key stakeholders.
184
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Division of Responsibilities
Our Approach to Division
of Responsibilities
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chair, two Executive
Directors and seven independent Non-Executive Directors.
The roles and division of responsibilities between the Chair, Executive Directors
and Non-Executive Directors are summarised below.
Board Efficacy
Roles and Division of Responsibilities
The Chair facilitates constructive Board relations, supporting
Role Responsibilities
effective contribution from Non-Executive Directors and
Chair –Leadership of the Board and its overall promoting a culture of openness and debate. The Chair seeks
effectiveness a consensus at Board meetings but, if necessary, decisions are
–Promotes culture of openness, constructive taken by majority decision. If any Director has concerns about any
debate and effective decision-making issues that cannot be resolved, such concerns are noted in the
Board minutes. No such concerns arose in 2024.
–Sets the Board agenda
Scheduled Board meetings during the year were convened in
–Facilitates constructive board relations
person. The Board held its strategy sessions in September 2024
–Interfaces with shareholders in the U.S. Feedback from the annual Board evaluation confirmed
–Ensures effective shareholder engagement that Board meetings continued to operate well and are considered
to be chaired effectively.
–Representational duties on behalf of the
Company Non-Executive Director Meetings
Chief Executive –Overall responsibility for Group Meetings of the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chair and
performance without any Executive Director present, are scheduled in the Board
calendar. These meetings are usually held following scheduled
–Leadership of the Group
Board meetings, with additional Non-Executive Director meetings
–Enables planning and execution of Group convened where required.
objectives and strategies
The Executive and the Non-Executive Directors also meet annually,
–Stewardship of Group assets led by the Senior Independent Director and without the Chair
–Drives the cultural tone of the organisation present, to discuss the Chair’s performance.
Chief Financial –Leadership of the Group in respect Independence
Officer of financial matters The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to be independent,
as they are free from any business or other relationships that
–Enables planning and execution of Group
could interfere materially with, or appear to affect, their judgement.
financial objectives and strategies
Luc Jobin was determined by the Board to be independent on his
–Provision of accurate, timely and clear
appointment as Chair, as reported in the Company’s Annual
information to the Board on the Group's
Report and Form 20-F for 2020.
financial performance
The Board has determined Holly Keller Koeppel to be independent,
Senior –Leads review of the Chair’s performance
having taken into account her service on the board of Reynolds
Independent –Presides at Board meetings in the Chair’s American Inc. (Reynolds American) as an independent, non-
Director absence executive director.
–Chairs the Nominations Committee when Luc and Holly were originally appointed to the Board in 2017
Chair succession considered following the acquisition of Reynolds American and pursuant
–Sounding board for the Chair to the Agreement and Plan of Merger with Reynolds American.
–Intermediary for other Directors The Board has also considered the independence requirements
outlined in the NYSE’s listing standards and has determined
–Available to meet with shareholders
that these are met by the Chair and all the Non-Executive
Non-Executive –Oversee Group strategy and resource Directors. The Board considers that it currently includes an
Directors allocation appropriate combination of Executive and Non-Executive
–Monitor Group performance and monitor Directors.
delivery of Group strategy
–Oversee the risk management and internal
control framework
–Review management proposals and provide
strategic guidance
–Scrutinise and hold to account
performance against objectives
–Bring external judgement, perspective
and effective challenge to management
+ The responsibilities of the Chair, Executive Directors and Senior
Independent Director are available at bat.com/governance
185
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Division of Responsibilities
Directors’ Commitment
and Board Support
Commitment Board Induction
Before appointing new Directors, the Board takes into account All Directors receive a comprehensive and personalised induction
their other commitments and significant time commitments are on joining the Board, tailored to their skills, experience, background,
disclosed and considered prior to appointment. The letters of committee membership and requirements of their role.
appointment for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors set out Murray Kessler and Serpil Timuray completed their Non-Executive
their expected time commitment to the Company (see page 191). Director induction in 2024, following their appointment to the Board
Any additional external appointments following appointment to in 2023. The scope of their induction is discussed in the Company's
the Board require prior approval by the Board in accordance with Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2023.
the 2018 Code. The Board assesses the significance of any Soraya Benchikh completed her Executive Director induction
additional external appointment notified by a Director, supported following her appointment to the Board in May 2024, as
by the Company Secretary. highlighted below.
During 2024, the Board considered Darrell Thomas' appointment
to the Board of Directors of Vontier Corporation, a company listed Spotlight
on the New York Stock Exchange, effective from 4 June 2024. This
additional appointment was considered by the Board to be
significant in accordance with the 2018 Code, however the Board Executive Director's Induction
concluded that the appointment would not impair Darrell's ability Soraya Benchikh
to serve as a Non-Executive Director in view of the anticipated
Soraya completed her Executive Director induction following
time commitment and taking into account his resignation as non-
her appointment to the Board in May 2024.
executive director of Pitney Bowes, Inc. on 6 May 2024.
Her induction included in-depth briefings from the Chief
The Board also considered the appointment of Serpil Timuray as
Executive, other Management Board members and senior
CEO Vodafone Investments effective from 1 April 2024 (previously
management personnel covering a range of topics across the
Serpil held the role of CEO, Europe Cluster) and concluded that the
Group's strategic pillars, including the Group's strategy,
change in Serpil's executive role at Vodafone would not be an
purpose, values and culture; business regions; product
additional demand on her time and would not impair her ability to
portfolios and scientific research programmes; the Group's
serve as a Non-Executive Director.
sustainability agenda; shareholder and wider stakeholder
Conflicts of Interests engagement; the Group's risk management and internal control
The Board has formal procedures for managing conflicts of framework; corporate governance, integrity and compliance;
interest. Directors are required to give advance notice of any directors' duties; and treasury, risk, legal and regulatory matters.
conflict issues to the Company Secretary. These are considered Soraya's induction also included meetings with the Chair and
either at the next Board meeting or, if timing requires, at a meeting each of the Directors to understand the role of the PLC Board
of the Board’s Conflicts Committee. and its Committees, and with the External Audit Partner.
Each year, the Board considers afresh all previously authorised
situational conflicts. Directors are excluded from the quorum and
vote in respect of any matters in which they have an interest. Professional Development
There were no new potential situational conflicts identified for the The Chair meets with each Non-Executive Director individually
Board's consideration during 2024. towards the end of the year to discuss their individual training
and development plans.
Information and Advice
More broadly, Non-Executive Directors participate in a full
Directors receive effective support to assist them in meeting
programme of briefings during the year across the Group’s
their responsibilities under the 2018 Code and discharging their
activities provided by the Chief Executive, members of the
directors’ duties, both individually and collectively, including the
Management Board, the Company Secretary, other senior
following:
executives and outside advisors.
–Directors receive papers for review in good time ahead of each
During 2024, key briefings for the Board included an in-depth
Board and Committee meeting.
review of developments in sustainability regulation led by the Chief
–Papers and presentations to the Board and its Committees Sustainability Officer and external legal advisors. The review
include discussion of specific stakeholder considerations included analysis from UK, European and U.S. perspectives with a
as applicable. deep dive review of rules adopted (then stayed) by the U.S. SEC in
–The Company Secretary ensures effective information flow relation to climate change disclosures. During the year, the Board
within and between the Board and its Committees, and between was also briefed on reform of the UK Listing Regime and on the
the Non-Executive Directors and senior management. The 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, to be introduced through
Company Secretary, in conjunction with external advisers where staged implementation from 2025.
appropriate, advises the Board on all governance matters.
–All Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary. The appointment and replacement of the
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
–A procedure is in place for all Directors to take independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense if required.
–Each Board Committee may obtain independent legal or other
professional advice, at the Company’s expense, and secure
attendance at meetings of external participants if needed.
Luc Jobin with Darrell Thomas and Karen Guerra attending a discussion forum
with colleagues from our DBS Hub in Warsaw, Poland in May 2024
186
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Composition, Succession, Evaluation
Board Effectiveness
Professional Development Board Review Process
Non-Executive Directors regularly attend meetings of the Group’s Annually, the Board undertakes a rigorous review of its
Regional Audit Committees and Corporate Audit Committee to effectiveness and performance, and that of its Committees and
gain a better understanding of the Group’s regions and central individual Directors. The Chair is responsible for the overall review
functions and the risks faced by the business at market, regional process and each Committee Chair is responsible for the review
and functional levels. of the performance and effectiveness of their Committee.
Committees of the Board are kept updated on developments The effectiveness and performance of the Board, its Committees
within their respective remits. All Board members attended the and the Directors were reviewed internally in 2024, led by the Chair
meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees held in and facilitated by the Company Secretary. An externally-facilitated
September 2024 to promote a deeper understanding of the work review of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its
of the Committees of which they are not members. Committees, and each of the Directors was conducted in 2022.
All Directors were briefed on developments in the cyber risk For the 2024 internal review, all Directors (in role in October 2024)
landscape and emerging threats, including perspectives reported participated fully in the review. As part of the internal review
from external advisers as to the risks organisations should process, a series of questionnaires were completed by
evaluate in their Enterprise Risk Governance programmes, participating Directors, through which they were requested to
alongside of an assessment of the Group's internal cyber risk assess the effectiveness and performance of the Board, the
landscape, provided by the Director, Digital & Information and the Committees of which they were a member or regularly attended
Chief Information Security Officer. during the year, and each of the Directors. Several members of
In 2024, the Audit Committee was briefed on developments senior management also participated in aspects of the review
in sustainability reporting regulations by the Chief Sustainability process relevant to their remit.
Officer and KPMG as external auditor. Briefings covered continued Feedback was collated on an anonymised basis and reports on the
reporting in alignment with TCFD recommendations, the European outcomes of the review process and action areas for consideration
Sustainability Reporting Standards introducing future were prepared for the Board and each Committee. The Board and
requirements for disclosures in compliance with the EU Corporate the Committees then reviewed and discussed their respective
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), development of the UK reports and identified action areas for 2025, taking into account
Sustainability Disclosure Standards, and the adoption of climate the review findings. The Committee Chairs also reported back to
disclosure rules by the U.S. SEC. The Audit Committee's the Board on the outcomes of their Committee evaluations.
understanding of developments in the complex sustainability The Chair received reports from the Company Secretary on the
regulation landscape continues to inform its oversight of the performance and effectiveness of the Directors (other than
Group's sustainability reporting framework and its future himself) and he provided individual feedback to each Director. The
development. Senior Independent Director received a report from the Company
The Audit Committee was also briefed on the introduction of the Secretary on the Chair’s performance and effectiveness, and led
2024 UK Corporate Governance Code and approach to compliance a discussion reviewing the Chair’s effectiveness with the other
through a phased approach from January 2025, and on Directors (without the Chair present). The Senior Independent
developments in UK financial reporting requirements. Director then provided feedback to the Chair.
The Remuneration Committee is briefed by its external
consultants on UK and U.S. corporate governance developments 2024: Internal Board review process
impacting executive and wider workforce remuneration. Briefings
1 Plan and Evaluate
provided to the Committee during the year included updates on
–The Chair and Company Secretary reviewed the
the UK Investment Association's Principles of Remuneration,
scope and focus areas for the review and defined
updates on market developments in the use of sustainability
the series of questionnaires to be used to support
metrics in incentive schemes and other key developments in
the review process.
executive remuneration to inform development of proposals for
the 2025 Directors' Remuneration Policy. –Participants submitted their assessment of the
performance and effectiveness of the Board, its
Committees and the Directors.
2 Reporting
–Participant feedback was collated on an anonymised
basis and reports were prepared for the Board, its
Committees and the Directors.
3 Review and Action
–Board Committees reviewed and discussed the review
outcomes related to their performance, identified
actions arising and provided feedback to the Board.
–The Board then discussed the review outcomes
and identified action areas for 2025.
–The Chair provided feedback to the other Directors.
–The Senior Independent Director provided feedback
to the Chair.
Darrell Thomas attending a marketing digital showcase with colleagues
in Tokyo, Japan in September 2024
187
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Composition, Succession, Evaluation
Board Effectiveness
Continued
Spotlight
2024 Board review Key Actions for 2025
Overview of Outcomes Following the internal review conducted in 2024, the Board
The internal review conducted for 2024 concluded that the and its Committees plan to focus on the following key areas:
Board performs effectively and has a sound working relationship Non-Executive succession planning
with its Committees. –Continued focus on succession planning for Non-Executive
The review found the Board to be productive and diverse, Directors in view of anticipated retirements to maintain the
with an appropriate balance of experience and a high degree breadth of the Board’s skills and expertise, including financial
of engagement demonstrated across all members of the expertise, and with particular emphasis on succession planning
Board. The dynamics of the Board are well regarded, with for the Chair of the Board and the Senior Independent Director.
collaborative working relationships between the Non-Executive –While the outcomes of the Board review for 2024 are not
Directors, Executive Directors and the wider management anticipated to immediately influence the composition of the
team supporting openness and transparency in the Board, feedback received in relation to skills and experience
Board’s discussions. that may be beneficial for future Non-Executive Directors will
The effectiveness of the Board’s approach to decision-making continue to be taken into account by the Nominations
was identified as a strength, with boardroom dynamics Committee as part of ongoing Non-Executive Director
encouraging constructive discussion and opportunities to share succession planning activities.
perspectives. Feedback indicated that the Board maintains
Strategic oversight
appropriate focus on oversight of Group strategy and risk
–Maintain focus on monitoring the progress of strategic
management, controls and compliance matters, alongside of
implementation and oversight of capital allocation,
monitoring external developments, the macroeconomic and
underpinned by regular review of progress against the Group's
geopolitical environment and the evolving regulatory landscape.
new transformation metrics and continued support for the
The Board’s oversight of people, culture and how our values are executive management team to stay focused on key priorities.
embedded was highlighted, with feedback indicating that the
Risk management
enhanced approach to employee listening was well received and
–For the Audit Committee, continued oversight of development
that valuable insights were obtained through various channels,
of risk management and controls procedures to facilitate
including town hall sessions as part of Directors’ market visits.
enhanced reporting on material controls effectiveness from
More broadly, feedback indicated the continued importance of
2026, and focus on sustainability reporting developments to
the Directors’ programme of market and site visits to
ensure readiness for future requirements for enhanced
understand how our values are embedded and strategic
assurance of sustainability reporting.
capabilities are deployed.
–Keep abreast of emerging and evolving risks to the Group and
The Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
appropriate approaches to mitigation.
Committees are considered to be effectively chaired, managed
and supported to enable their decision-making and that Oversight of culture, people and wider stakeholders
Committee Chairs provide appropriate reporting on the activities –Maintain focus on employee engagement and oversight of
of their Committees back to the Board. cultural transformation, particularly to understand how our
values including ‘Empowered through trust’ are emphasised
Progress against key action areas identified for 2024:
consistently.
Strategy: The Board’s agenda for the year maintained due focus
on oversight of Group strategy and its execution, including in –Continue to allow time on the Board agenda for oversight of
relation to sustainability. During the year, the Board also worked diversity in the senior management succession pipeline and
closely with the executive management team to develop a the broader talent development to support the Group's
focused set of new transformation metrics to articulate strategic objectives.
progress against the Group’s strategic objectives. –For the Remuneration Committee, fine-tune development of
Board leadership: In 2024, the Nominations Committee the new Directors’ Remuneration Policy to take account of
reviewed the profiles, skills and experience required of future feedback from shareholder engagement, in readiness for
Non-Executive Directors, taking into account the Group’s presentation of the new policy to shareholders in April 2025.
strategic objectives, which supported development of candidate –Develop the Board's programme of market and site visits for
role requirements for Non-Executive Director succession 2025, building on the programme conducted in 2024, to enable
planning. The Directors also gained insights from their a range of opportunities for the Directors to engage with
programme of market and operational site visits during the year colleagues across the Group, and with wider stakeholders
that enabled opportunities for informal workforce engagement. including suppliers, customers and consumers.
Risk management: Appropriate time was allowed on the board Professional development
agenda for consideration of Principal Risks and mitigation –Develop the Board’s professional education programme for
activities, including evolving risks relating to cyber security and 2025 across various key topics, including sustainability, cyber
supply chain resilience. The Audit Committee has also security, responsible use of AI, and evolving regulation
maintained its focus on the operation of business controls and impacting the Group, supported by external perspectives.
sustainability reporting.
People and culture: The Nominations Committee continued its
oversight of initiatives to develop a diverse pipeline of senior
management talent, supported by an in-depth review of longer-
term succession planning for Management Board roles. Soraya
Benchikh also completed her induction programme following her
appointment as Chief Financial Officer in May 2024.
The Remuneration Committee completed its review of the
Directors’ Remuneration Policy, discussed on pages 205 to 226.
188
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Nominations Committee
Nominations Committee Role
current members As set out in the Terms of Reference, the Nominations Committee is responsible for:
–reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, its Committees and the
Luc Jobin (Chair)
Management Board on a regular basis to ensure they have an appropriate balance
Kandy Anand of skills, experience, knowledge and, in relation to the Board, independence;
Karen Guerra –oversight of plans and processes for orderly succession for appointments to the Board, its
Committees, the Management Board and Company Secretary to maintain a
Holly Keller Koeppel
combination of skills and experience and to ensure progressive refreshing of both Boards;
Murray S. Kessler
–making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates for appointments
Véronique Laury to the Board, its Committees, the Management Board and Company Secretary,
ensuring that the procedure for those appointments is rigorous, made on merit
Darrell Thomas
against objective criteria, and has due regard for the promotion of diversity,
Serpil Timuray inclusion and equal opportunity;
–assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chair, Senior Independent Director
and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring Non-Executive Directors have sufficient
Luc Jobin time to fulfil their duties;
Chair of the Nominations Committee –overseeing the development of a pipeline of diverse, high-performing potential
Executive Directors, Management Board members and other senior managers; and
–implementing the Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy and monitoring progress
towards the achievement of its objectives, summarised on page 192.
Key Activities in 2024 –Making recommendations to the Board
–Succession planning for the role of Senior to introduce revisions to the Board
Independent Director and the Chairs of Diversity & Inclusion Policy, including to
the Audit and Remuneration Committees. reflect our values.
–Making recommendations to the Board –Oversight of the Group’s diversity and
for the appointment of Holly Keller inclusion agenda, its role in promoting
Koeppel as Senior Independent Director, an inclusive and high-performing culture
Darrell Thomas as Audit Committee as part of the Group’s talent strategy,
Chair and Kandy Anand as Remuneration and progress in building diverse talent
Committee Chair, which took effect from pipelines and creating enablers across
conclusion of the Company's 2024 AGM. the organisation.
–Assessing plans for Management Board Board Diversity and Inclusion
restructuring and making The Board strives to promote diversity and
recommendations to the Board to revise inclusion, within its own membership and
elements of the Management Board's more broadly at all levels across our
structure, roles and composition, as set organisation. Our Non-Executive Directors
out on page 173. come from a wide range of industry and
–Ongoing assessment of the profile, professional backgrounds, with varied
capabilities and experience required of experience and expertise aligned to the
future Non-Executive Directors in the Group’s strategic objectives.
context of the Group’s strategy, to Biographies of the Directors, including a
support Non-Executive Director summary of their skills, experience and
succession planning activities, referred to contribution to the Board, and details of the
at page 190. representation of key diversity attributes
–Making recommendations to the Board in on our Board are set out on pages 166 to 169.
relation to Directors’ annual appointment Our Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy and
and election/re-election at the AGM, revisions implemented in 2024 are
discussed further on page 190. discussed on page 192. We report Board
–Reviewing Executive Directors' and and executive management diversity data
Management Board members’ annual on page 193 in accordance with the UK
performance assessments and assessing Listing Rules requirements. Currently, 50%
development of candidates for of our Directors are women and 40% from
Management Board roles. an ethnic minority background (as defined
by the UK Office of National Statistics).
Nominations Committee terms of reference
Revised terms of reference for the Committee were introduced with effect from
1 August 2024 to reflect the introduction of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code,
as it applies to the Company from 1 January 2025.
+ For the Committee’s terms of reference see
www.bat.com/governance
189
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Composition, Succession, Evaluation
Nominations Committee
Continued
Board Succession Planning A shortlist of potential candidates was then The Committee’s Non-Executive Director
The Board considers the length of service defined, supported by individual briefing succession planning activities during the
of Directors holistically and the importance reports against the role criteria. Thorough year were supported by Egon Zehnder3, an
of refreshing Board membership consideration was given to the capabilities, executive search consultancy. The process
progressively over time. The Committee experience and personal attributes of leading to the appointment of Uta
is responsible for regularly reviewing the shortlisted candidates. Kemmerich-Keil as a Non-Executive
composition of the Board and the Soraya was identified as the preferred Director with effect from 17 February 2025
Management Board to ensure both have candidate for the role of Chief Financial will be reported in the Company’s Annual
an appropriate combination of skills, Officer through benchmarking of her skills, Report and Form 20-F for 2025.
experience and knowledge. experience and personal attributes against Board Retirements
The Committee is also responsible for the other shortlisted candidates and the role Sue Farr and Dimitri Panayotopoulos
identifying candidates for appointment to criteria, an interview and assessment process stepped down from the Board with effect
the Board and ensuring that all and input from members of the Committee. from the conclusion of the Company’s
appointments are made on merit, against In connection with this search process, AGM on 24 April 2024.
objective criteria, and with due regard for Savannah Group Limited1 supported with Annual General Meeting 2025
the promotion of diversity, inclusion and an initial candidate mapping exercise and Murray Kessler will step down from the
equal opportunity, taking into account our Odgers Berndtson2 supported with Board with effect from 17 February 2025 and
Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy. This candidate benchmarking and assessment. will not be proposed for re-election at the
process includes interviews with a range Company’s 2025 AGM. The Company will
Following the Board's acceptance of the
of candidates and full evaluation of submit all other eligible Directors for re-
Nominations Committee's
candidates’ experience and attributes and election, or election for the first time in the
recommendation, Soraya's appointment
how these would augment the Board’s mix case of Soraya Benchikh and Uta
as Chief Financial Officer was announced
of skills, experience and knowledge. Kemmerich-Keil (Uta will be appointed to the
in November 2023 and took effect on
Executive Director succession 1 May 2024. Board with effect from 17 February 2025).
Following appointment of Tadeu Marroco Prior to making recommendations to the
Soraya brings to the Board her extensive
as Chief Executive and Javed Iqbal as Board in respect of Directors proposed for
senior leadership and financial experience
Interim Finance Director in May 2023, the re-election or election for the first time (as
gained from a range of international fast
Committee oversaw a comprehensive and applicable), the Committee carried out an
moving consumer goods companies and
international search process during 2023 assessment of each Director, including
her biography is set out on page 166.
to identify a new Chief Financial Officer, their performance, contribution to the
leading to the appointment of Soraya Non-Executive Director succession long-term sustainable success of the
Benchikh in May 2024. The process for the identification and Company and, in respect of each of the
At the start of the selection process, a full recommendation of a candidate for Non-Executive Directors, their continued
set of objective criteria was defined to appointment as a Non-Executive Director independence and ability to devote
specify a range of key competencies and is led by the Committee. sufficient time to their role (discussed
experience required to fulfil the role, The process generally includes interviews on pages 185 and 186).
including of transformational leadership, with a range of candidates and full The Chair’s letter accompanying the 2025
depth of financial, capital markets and M&A evaluation of candidates’ experience and AGM Notice confirms that all Non-Executive
experience, and familiarity with complex attributes and how these would augment Directors being proposed for re-election (or
and highly regulated industries. The role the Board’s competencies and diversity. election for the first time, as applicable) are
criteria also emphasised the importance of In 2024, the Committee reviewed the effective and that they continue to
attributes such as a collaborative and profiles, skills and experience required of demonstrate commitment to their roles.
inclusive leadership style, personal integrity future Non-Executive Directors, taking into
and ability to empower and mentor teams account the Group's strategic objectives, Notes:
and facilitate boardroom and leadership overlaid with an assessment of the skills 1. Savannah Group Limited is an independent executive search
firm, which applies the Standard and Enhanced Codes of
team dynamics. matrix contributed by current Non- Conduct for Executive Search Firms. The firm has no
Through the initial stages of the search Executive Directors and anticipated tenure. connections with the Company or its Directors other than in
process, the outcomes of a candidate Based on this review, the Committee has respect of the provision of executive search services.
2. Odgers Berndtson (trading name of IRG Advisors LLP) is
mapping exercise were assessed to overseen the development of specific an independent executive search firm, which applies the
identify a potential long list of candidates. candidate profile requirements. Standard and Enhanced Codes of Conduct for Executive
Search Firms. The firm has no connections with the
Company or its Directors other than in respect of the
provision of executive search services.
Attendance at meetings in 20244(a), 5(a) 3. Egon Zehnder Limited is an independent executive
search firm, which applies the Standard and Enhanced
Meeting attendance6 Codes of Conduct for Executive Search Firms. The firm
has no connections with the Company or its Directors
Name Member since Attended/Eligible to attend other than in respect of the provision of executive
Luc Jobin 2017 4/4 search and consultancy services.
4. Number of meetings in 2024: (a) the Committee held
Kandy Anand 2022 4/4 four meetings in 2024, one of which was ad hoc. Three
meetings of the Committee are scheduled for 2025; and
Karen Guerra 2020 4/4 (b) Holly Keller Koeppel did not attend the scheduled
Holly Keller Koeppel4(b) 2017 3/4 meeting in July 2024 due to prior commitments.
5. Membership: (a) all members of the Committee are
Murray Kessler5(c) 2023 4/4 independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 Provisions 10 and
Véronique Laury 2022 4/4 17, applicable U.S. federal securities laws and NYSE listing
standards; and (b) Sue Farr and Dimitri Panayotopoulos
Darrell Thomas 2020 4/4
ceased to be members of the Committee on stepping
Serpil Timuray 2023 4/4 down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on
24 April 2024; (c) Murray Kessler will cease to be a member
Sue Farr5(b) 2015 - 2024 1/1 of the Committee on stepping down from the Board with
effect from 17 February 2025.
Dimitri Panayotopoulos5(b) 2015 - 2024 1/1 6. Other attendees: the Chief Executive and the Chief
People Officer attend meetings by invitation but not
as members.
190
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Terms of Appointment to the Board Talent pipeline development
Executive Management Balance
Details of the Directors’ terms of The strategic intentions of our people
appointment to the Board and the strategy that underpin development of as at 31 December 2024
Company’s policy on payments for loss a diverse talent pipeline include: Management Board:
of office are contained in the current –Shaping a performance-driven & Nationality
Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which is dynamic organisation: enable a
set out in full in the Remuneration Report progressive and results-focused mindset
in the Company’s Annual Report and and enhance access to talent;
Form 20-F for 2021 available on bat.com.
–Nurturing relevant capabilities:
The Executive Directors have rolling meaningful development paths to drive
one-year contracts. Non-Executive skills development and talent retention,
Directors do not have service contracts with supported by clear leadership
the Company but instead have letters of expectations and a culture of
appointment for one year, with an expected personalised learning; and
time commitment of 25 to 30 days per year.
–Creating a purposeful & energising
Oversight of our People Strategy environment: our values are embedded
The Board oversees our people strategy as in all we do, promote our diversity and
a key element and enabler of the Group inclusion agenda, reward performance
strategy as a whole. In 2024 and in the and recognise progress.
American 1
context of the Dynamic Business pillar of
During the year, the Board reviewed
our Strategic Navigator, the Board progress of key initiatives mapped to the Australian 1
endorsed the introduction of our new
strategic ambitions of our people strategy Belgian 1
people strategy, designed to foster an
across a rolling two-year roadmap,
exciting, winning organisation to be including: Brazilian 2
implemented through defined initiatives
and measured through core indices. –Leadership Capabilities: Launch of British 3
defined capabilities, driven by the Group's
Our people strategy and its strategic French 1
strategic objectives which, taken
ambitions are discussed further at pages
together with our values, describe how German 1
38 to 39 and 110 to 112.
everyday leadership should look at every
Irish 2
Senior Management level of the organisation.
succession planning Italian/Argentinian 1
–Talent model: Activation of a new,
As part of the Committee’s responsibility employee lifecycle-focused talent model, Pakistani 2
to oversee the development of a pipeline designed to build a diverse and future-
of diverse, high-performing senior ready talent pipeline aligned to the
management, it reviews succession plans Group's strategy, including career Senior Management2
and talent pools at short-term, mid-term pathways and resources to develop key and their direct reports:
and long-term time horizons for the skills and identify best-fit talent to inform Gender balance
Executive Directors, other Management succession planning and focused
Board members, and certain other development actions.
members of senior management.
–Employer value proposition: Progress
The Committee takes into account the in the development of our employer
importance of growing a diverse executive value proposition and its resonance
talent pipeline to support broader with candidates, to enable the Group
executive management diversity in the to attract and retain talent with relevant
longer term and develop strategic and capabilities through engaging brand
functional capabilities, including progress expression and activation.
towards our ambition for 40%
–Group Diversity & Inclusion agenda:
representation of Ethnically Diverse
Groups1 for the Management Board and Reviewing progress against the Group’s
diversity and inclusion ambitions through
direct reports by 2027, in line with the
to 2025, including to have women in 40%
recommendation made by the UK Parker
of senior team roles and 45% of
R th e is vi e am w. b A it n io u n p i d s a d t i e s c o u n s o se u d r p a r t o p g a r g es e s 1 1 a 1 g . ainst management level roles1. Male 69 65%
Our Strategic Report discusses our people
Progress against our objective to develop Female 37 35%
strategy and progress of key initiatives
a pipeline of diverse, high-performing
senior managers is set out on page 192. further, and provides details Notes:
on the diversity of our workforce and our 1. Refer to page 393. Refer to BAT 'Reporting Criteria'
senior management population. for a full description of key definitions at bat.com/
reporting.
+ Read more on pages 38 to 39 2.Senior Management comprises the Management
and 110 to 112 Board and the Company Secretary, in accordance
with the 2018 Code.
Management Board ethnicity and gender
balance is reported on page 193 as part of
our diversity reporting for executive
management as at 31 December 2024.
191
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Composition, Succession, Evaluation
Nominations Committee
Continued
Spotlight
Our Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy
A revised Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy was approved by the Board and took effect in 2024,
reflecting our values and the introduction of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code.
At BAT, we are proud to be a diverse and inclusive global organisation that We recognise that diversity is a critical component of board effectiveness
encourages our people to value their differences and bring their authentic and we are committed to promoting diversity in the composition of the
selves to work. Board, its Committees and the Management Board.
Our ongoing commitment to fostering a progressive culture is underpinned The Nominations Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the
clearly by our value: 'Truly Inclusive'. Our commitment to diversity and composition of the Board, its Committees and the Management Board to
inclusion across BAT is also embedded through our Group Standards of ensure these have an appropriate balance of skills, expertise and knowledge,
Business Conduct, applicable to all employees of the Group. and for ensuring that all appointments are made on merit against objective
Our Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy sets out our approach to diversity criteria and with due regard for the promotion of diversity and inclusion. This
and inclusion applicable to the Board, its Committees1 and the includes consideration of our Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy objectives
Management Board2. This policy is intended to support the Board, through set out below.
the activities of its Nominations Committee, in maintaining the The Nominations Committee is responsible for implementing this policy and
effectiveness and balance of the Board, its Committees and the monitoring progress against its objectives. This policy and progress against
Management Board. its objectives is reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee, in addition
Diversity and inclusion are key principles of our values. We think of diversity to other BAT initiatives that promote diversity in all its forms across BAT.
in its widest sense, as those attributes that make each of us unique. These As part of the annual review of the effectiveness and performance of the
include our race, ethnicity, cultural and social backgrounds, geographical Board, consideration is given to the balance of experience, skills, knowledge,
origin, nationality, gender, age, any disability, sexual orientation, religion, independence and all attributes of diversity of the Board.
skills, experience, education, socio-economic and professional background,
perspectives and thinking styles.
,
Board Diversity & Inclusion Objectives and Progress Updates
The objectives of our Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy and progress against these objectives in the year are set out below.
Fostering an inclusive culture During the year, the Board reviewed the definition of our refreshed leadership capabilities for application across
within the Group and leading the Group's management population. These leadership capabilities, together with our values, describe how
by example everyday leadership should look at every level of the organisation and highlight fostering an inclusive culture as
a core leadership capability,
Considering all aspects of diversity The Nominations Committee has regard to diversity in its widest sense, including attributes such as gender,
when reviewing the composition race, ethnicity, cultural and social backgrounds, and other personal attributes referred to in our Board Diversity &
of, and succession planning for, Inclusion Policy above, when undertaking these activities.
the Board, its Committees1 and the
Management Board2
Considering a wide and gender- Executive search firms are engaged to support Board and Management Board succession planning where
balanced pool of candidates applicable and are required to provide gender-balanced shortlists of candidates. Succession planning for
for appointment to the Board Executive Directors and Management Board members takes into account potential internal candidates from
across the Group and potential external candidates.
Maintain at least 40% The representation of women on the Board was 50% as at 31 December 2024 (2023: 45%). At the close of the
representation of women 2025 AGM, it is anticipated that women will represent 60% of the Board.
on the Board
At least one of the following senior The role of Senior Independent Director is held by Holly Keller Koeppel. Holly was appointed as Senior Independent
positions on the Board Director with effect from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM. The role of Chief Financial Officer is held by Soraya
to be held by a woman: Benchikh. Soraya was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2024.
Chair; Senior Independent Other senior positions on the Board are held by Luc Jobin (Chair) and Tadeu Marroco (Chief Executive).
Director; Chief Executive;
Chief Financial Officer
At least one Director of a As at 31 December 2024, the representation of ethnic minority backgrounds on the Board was 40% (2023: 27%).
minority ethnic background on At the close of the 2025 AGM, it is anticipated that the representation of ethnic minority backgrounds on the
the Board3 Board will be 40%. The Board complies with the recommendations on ethnic diversity made by the UK Parker
Review.
Giving preference, where Where executive search firms are engaged to provide executive search services to support Board succession
appropriate, to engagement of planning, preference is given to those that are accredited under the Standard and Enhanced Code of Conduct for
executive search firms accredited Executive Search Firms.
under the Standard and Enhanced
Code of Conduct for Executive
Search Firms
Oversight of the development The representation of women on the Management Board was 13% as at 31 December 2024 (2023: 7%).
of a pipeline of diverse, high- Promotion of diversity and inclusion is embedded in our approach to Management Board succession planning
performing potential Executive to support progress towards improved gender diversity at Management Board level. Emphasis is placed on
Directors, Management Board developing diverse talent pools at all levels of the organisation through recruitment, development and retention
members and other senior of diverse and high-performing talent. In 2024, 54% of the Group’s external management recruits were women
managers. (2023: 50%) and women comprised 63% of our new graduate intake in 2024 (2023: 62%).
Further information about the Group’s diversity and inclusion agenda is set out on pages 110 to 112.
Notes on Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy Objectives:
1. The principal committees of the Board comprise the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
2.The Management Board is the executive level committee of the Group.
3.Applying UK Office for National Statistics ethnicity categories of: Asian; Black; Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups; Other Ethnic Group, in alignment with the UK Listing Rules.
192
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Reporting in alignment with UK Listing Rules provisions on diversity and inclusion
We report our Board and executive management diversity data and our progress in meeting the UK Listing Rules board diversity targets
as at 31 December 2024 in accordance with the UK Listing Rules disclosure requirements.
As at 31 December 2024, two of the four senior positions on the Board were held by women, Directors from an ethnic minority
background represented 40% of the Board and the representation of women on the Board was 50% (this remains the case as at the date
of this Annual Report and Form 20-F).
The Board is committed to continued enhancement of its diversity, supported by the succession planning activities conducted by the
Nominations Committee, discussed on pages 189 to 192.
Gender Representation: Board & Executive Management as at 31 December 2024
Number of senior positions
on the Number in Percentage
Number of Board Percentage of Board (CEO, CFO, executive of executive
members the Board SID and Chair) management1 management1
Men 5 50 % 2 13 81 %
Women 5 50 % 2 3 19 %
Not specified/prefer not to say — — — — —
Ethnic Background: Board & Executive Management as at 31 December 2024
Number of senior
positions on the Number in Percentage
Number of Board Percentage of Board (CEO, CFO, executive of executive
members the Board SID and Chair) management1 management1
White British or other White (including
minority-white groups) 6 60 % 2 11 69 %
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups — — — — — %
Asian/Asian British 2 20 % 1 3 19 %
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British 1 10 % — — — %
Other ethnic group 1 10 % 1 2 12 %
Not specified/prefer not to say — — — — —
Note:
1. Executive management includes the Management Board (most senior executive body below the Board) and the Company Secretary, excluding administrative and support staff,
as defined by the UK Listing Rules.
Approach to data collection
Gender and ethnicity data relating to the Board, Management Board and (2) Self-reported ethnic background (classifications as designated by the UK
Company Secretary is collected on an annual basis applying a standardised Office of National Statistics). Selection from: [a] White British or other White
process managed by the Company Secretary. (including minority white groups); [b] Mixed or Multiple Ethnic Groups;
Each Board member, Management Board member and the Company Secretary [c] Asian or Asian British; [d] Black or African or Caribbean or Black British;
is requested to complete a standard form questionnaire on a strictly confidential [e] Other Ethnic Group (including Arab, Hispanic or Latin American) (please
and voluntary basis, through which the individual self-reports their ethnicity and specify); [f] not specified (due to local data privacy laws); or [g] prefer not
gender identity (or specifies they do not wish to report such data). to say.
Consent is provided for data collection and processing of that data in The standard form questionnaire includes further guidance to participants
accordance with the applicable privacy notice set out in the questionnaire and in respect of the category 'Other Ethnic Group' following publication of the
in accordance with the Group Data Privacy Procedure. 2021 census ethnicity data by the UK Office of National Statistics.
The criteria of the standard form questionnaire are fully aligned to the definitions This approach to data collection is consistently applied across all members
specified in the UK Listing Rules, with individuals requested to specify: of the Board, Management Board and Company Secretary in relation to the
collection and reporting of their gender and ethnicity data in this Annual
(1) Self-reported gender identity. Selection from [a] male; [b] female; [c] other Report and Form 20-F.
category/please specify; [d] not specified (due to local data privacy laws); or
[e] prefer not to say.
193
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit, Risk, Internal Control
Audit Committee
Introduction Our agenda through the year has emphasised
Audit Committee
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I would ongoing attention to the effectiveness of the
Current Members like to introduce our report on the Group's risk management and internal control
Committee's role and activities during framework. Our work has included a thorough
Darrell Thomas (Chair) 2024. I was appointed as Chair of the review of principal and emerging risks to the
Committee in April 2024, taking over the Group and we have recognised climate
Holly Keller Koeppel
role from Holly Keller Koeppel who was change and circular economy as distinct
Véronique Laury appointed as Senior Independent Director. Principal Risks, considering the varying
Holly continues to contribute her valuable challenges and mitigation strategies in each
experience as a member of the Committee context. We also monitored developments
and I thank her for her work as Chair of the in the Group’s business integrity and
Committee since 2019. Karen Guerra compliance programme over the year.
Darrell Thomas
Chair of the Audit Committee transitioned to her new role on the The Committee is responsible for oversight
Remuneration Committee on 10 February 2025 of the Internal Audit function and we have
and I extend my thanks for her contributions endorsed a refreshed internal audit strategy
to the Committee. I look forward to which takes account of the evolving assurance
welcoming Uta Kemmerich-Keil to the needs of the Group. We reviewed progress
Committee with effect from 17 February 2025. of internal audit assignments conducted
Following the competitive tender process across the business in 2024, including those
conducted in 2023, the recommendation to focused on cyber security resilience and
appoint KPMG LLP as external auditor for responsible marketing controls, and we
financial year 2025 will be presented to approved the internal audit plan for 2025
shareholders at our next Annual General reflecting the refreshed internal audit
Meeting. You can refer back to the strategy. Our assessment of effectiveness
Committee's full report on the tender of the Internal Audit function for the year
process and the selection criteria applied was supported by an external quality
in our Annual Report and 20-F for 2023. assessment and the outcomes of
this review are discussed at page 201.
We assessed a range of accounting
judgements during the year, including Looking ahead to future reporting years
the accounting treatment applicable to and readiness to meet new regulatory
Imperial Tobacco Canada, in the context requirements, our work plan in 2025 will
of ongoing Canadian Companies’ Creditors include continued oversight of the Group's
Arrangement Act (CCAA) proceedings and sustainability data and reporting
developments in the litigation, assessment programme as preparations for CSRD
of the carrying value of U.S. business implementation continue at pace, and
goodwill and intangible assets, and the development of our procedures to facilitate
accounting treatment applicable to the enhanced reporting on material controls
disposal of part of the Group's investment effectiveness from financial year 2026.
in ITC Limited. These and other significant
judgements are reviewed from page 196.
Role
As set out in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors and reviews:
–integrity of the Group’s financial statements and any formal announcements
relating to the Company’s performance, considering any significant financial
reporting issues, significant judgements and estimates reflected in them, before
their submission to the Board;
–consistency of the Group’s accounting policies;
–effectiveness of, and makes recommendations to the Board on, the Group’s risk
management and internal control framework, including accounting, financial
controls and other material controls, auditing matters and business risk
management systems;
–effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function;
–independence, performance, effectiveness and objectivity of the Company’s
external auditors, makes recommendations to the Board as to their reappointment
(or for a tender of audit services where appropriate), and approves their terms of
engagement and the level of audit, audit-related and non-audit fees; and
–assurance activities conducted by the external assurance provider in relation to
Group reporting and scope of assurance activities, makes recommendations for
their appointment, and approves their terms of engagement and fees.
Audit Committee terms of reference
Revised terms of reference for the Committee were introduced with effect from
1 August 2024 to reflect the introduction of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code
as it applies to the Company from 1 January 2025.
+ For the Committee’s terms of reference see
www.bat.com/governance
194
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Key Activities in 2024
–oversight of management’s activities to ensure ongoing
Regular work programme includes reviewing: compliance with the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOx)
–the Group’s annual results, half-year results, the application of (discussed on page 199);
accounting standards and the external auditors’ reports where –the Company’s status as a Foreign Private Issuer for the
results are audited; purposes of U.S. securities laws;
–the basis of preparation and accounting judgements, including –regular reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on
application of segmental reporting; the internal audits of markets, business units, processes,
–adjusting items, applicable accounting treatments and the use operations and major change initiatives, management
of alternative performance measures; responses to internal audit findings and action plans put
in place to address any issues raised;
–the annual programme of assessment of goodwill and
intangibles impairment; –progress against the internal audit plan for 2024 and design
of the 2025 internal audit plan;
–the steps taken to validate the Group’s ‘going concern’
assessment at half-year and year-end and agreeing on the –the Group’s sustainability performance on an annual basis,
process and steps taken to determine the Group’s viability including performance against the Group’s sustainability
statement at year-end; targets, the Group’s responsible marketing framework and
under-age access prevention activities (discussed on pages 76
–the Group’s liquidity position, including current facilities
and 77);
and financing needs;
–external assurance activities conducted in respect of defined
–the assessment of Group viability, taking into account the sustainability metrics and related information conducted by
Group's current position and Principal Risks and associated the external assurance provider and assessing the outcomes
stress-testing analysis, prior to review by the Board; of assurance with the external provider;
–significant tax matters for the Group, including rate of taxation –annual and interim reports on the Group’s Delivery with
and external developments that may impact the Group's Integrity compliance programme (discussed on pages 118 to
tax position; 119), monitoring compliance with the SoBC, and monitoring
–the accounting applicable to post-employment benefits SoBC incident reporting and the effectiveness of Speak Up
liabilities and assets; channels prior to review by the Board;
–the internal processes followed for the preparation of the –the outcomes of human rights assessments for countries in
Annual Report and Form 20-F and confirming that the which Group companies operate that are identified to have
processes appropriately facilitated the preparation of an a higher degree of exposure to human rights risks in 2024,
Annual Report and Form 20-F that is ‘fair, balanced and including local compliance with Group policies, standards and
understandable’; controls and local measures in place to enhance human rights
risk management;
–the Group’s external auditors’ year-end audit, including the key
audit matters, critical audit matters, assessments of –periodic reports from the Group’s Corporate Audit Committee and
materiality and the Group’s control environment, and Regional Audit Committees;
confirming the independence of the Group’s external auditors; –the annual report from the Group Head of Security on security
–the Group's risk management and internal control framework, risks, losses and fraud arising during the preceding year;
including the effectiveness of accounting and other material
–half-year and year-end reports on the Group’s political
controls, including financial, operational, reporting and
contributions (discussed on page 204); and
compliance controls (discussed on page 198);
–the Committee's effectiveness, following the annual review of
–risks to the Group, including the Group risk register,
the Committee's performance (discussed on pages 187 to 188).
prioritisation and categorisation of Group risks, relevant
mitigating factors and emerging risks to the Group (discussed
on pages 155 to 162 and 414 to 435);
Attendance at meetings in 20241
Meeting attendance3,4
Name Member since Attended/Eligible to attend
Darrell Thomas2(a),(b),(c) 2020 6/6
Karen Guerra2(a),(d) 2021 6/6
Holly Keller Koeppel2(a),(b) 2017 6/6
Véronique Laury2(a) 2022 6/6
Notes:
1. Meetings: the Committee held six meetings in 2024. Five meetings of the Committee are scheduled for 2025. Additional meetings are convened on an ad hoc basis as required during
the year. In January 2024, there was one ad hoc meeting of the Committee to consider accounting and taxation matters.
2. Membership: (a) all members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 Provisions 10 and 24 and
applicable U.S. federal securities laws and NYSE listing standards. The Board has determined each Committee member to meet the financial literacy requirements applicable under
NYSE listing standards. Each member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018. The Committee has
competence in accounting and Committee members as a whole have competence relevant to the sectors the Group operates in as required by the UK Disclosure Guidance and
Transparency Rules; (b) Darrell Thomas and Holly Keller Koeppel are each designated as an audit committee financial expert in accordance with applicable U.S. federal securities laws
and NYSE listing standards; (c) Darrell Thomas was appointed as Chair of the Committee with effect from conclusion of the Company's AGM on 24 April 2024, succeeding Holly Keller
Koeppel who stepped down as Chair at that time but remains a member of the Committee; (d) Karen Guerra ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect from 10 February
2025 when she joined the Remuneration Committee.
3. The Chief Financial Officer attends all Committee meetings but is not a member. Other Directors may attend by invitation. The Director, Legal & General Counsel, the Group Head of
Internal Audit and the external auditors generally attend all meetings of the Committee.
4. The Committee met alone with the external auditors, and, separately with the Group Head of Internal Audit, at the end of every Committee meeting. The Committee also meets
periodically with management.
195
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit, Risk, Internal Control
Audit Committee
Continued
Further specific matters considered by the Committee Fox and Kalamazoo Rivers: In relation to Fox River, the
in relation to the financial statements: Committee reassessed the provision in respect of the Fox
River clean-up costs and related legal expenses and confirmed
–New metrics and non-GAAP assessment: New non-GAAP
that the provision would continue to be retained at the prior
measures of adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin
year level, noting that inherent uncertainties remain (see note
have been introduced. The Committee assessed these
24 in the Notes on the Accounts). The Committee also
measures, noting that they demonstrate the Group's
assessed the accounting treatment applicable to a settlement
profitability (before adjusting items and translational foreign
concluded with a former adviser to a third party involved in the
exchange) from the principal product categories, illustrating
litigation and concluded it was appropriate to recognise the
the category profitability development as the Group realises
settlement as an adjusting item impacting on profit from
the transition from Combustibles to Smokeless products in line
operations (see note 5(c) in the Notes on the Accounts). In
with the Group's strategy to Build a Smokeless World.
relation to Kalamazoo River, the Committee reviewed the
–Revision to Group accounting policy to reflect amendment position in respect of the claim and assessed that no provision
to IAS 7 (Cash Flow Statements): In view of an amendment to should be recognised on the basis set out at note 31 in the
IAS 7 (Cash Flow Statements) in respect of disclosures of Notes on the Accounts.
supplier finance arrangements (reverse factoring
Reynolds American Companies: The Committee concurred
arrangements), the Committee approved management's
with management’s approach to accounting for the Master
approach to enhance disclosure of applicable finance
Settlement Agreement and the Engle class-action and progeny
arrangements (see note 25 in the Notes on the Accounts).
cases as consistent with the prior year (see note 31 in the
Significant accounting judgements and estimates Notes on the Accounts).
considered in relation to the 2024 financial statements:
–Impact of disposal of part of the Group's investment in ITC
The significant accounting judgements and estimates
Limited (ITC): In relation to the Group's disposal of shares
considered by the Committee in relation to the financial
representing approximately 3.5% of ITC's issued ordinary share
statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 are
capital announced in March 2024, the Committee assessed
summarised below.
the accounting treatment applicable to the disposal and
–Goodwill and intangibles impairment review: The concluded it was appropriate to recognise the gain as an
Committee reviewed management’s assessments of the adjusting item within share of post-tax results of associates
carrying value of intangibles including goodwill (see note 12 and joint ventures (see note 9(a) in the Notes on the Accounts).
in the Notes on the Accounts), with continued focus on:
–Repayment of existing portion of Group debt: Following
U.S. Business: Following a full impairment assessment a tender offer in April 2024, the Group completed the early
covering overall U.S. business goodwill, identified indefinite- redemption of £1.8 billion of bonds, including £15 million of
lived and definite-lived brands, and taking into account accrued interest, in respect of which the Committee
continued macro-economic headwinds and latest forecasts, determined the accounting treatment applicable to the
the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to recognise transaction, including to recognise a net credit of
an impairment of £646 million in respect of the Camel Snus £590 million to be treated as an adjusting item impacting net
trademark due to the changing consumer behaviour towards finance costs (see note 8(b) in the Notes on the Accounts).
the Modern Oral category; and
–Significant tax exposures for the Group: The Committee
Imperial Tobacco Canada (ITCAN): In respect of Group reviewed updates on corporate tax matters and reports from
subsidiary ITCAN, the Committee determined that it was the Group Head of Tax on developments in various markets,
appropriate to not recognise an impairment charge in respect including tax disputes in Brazil and the Netherlands, and the
of goodwill, taking into account the developments in the status of the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation
Canadian Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (CCAA) Order (FII GLO). The Committee concurred with
proceedings during the year, following the publication of the management’s assessments and disclosures in respect of
proposed settlement plan in October 2024. these tax exposures (see notes 10 and 31, respectively, in the
–Contingent liabilities, provisions and deposits in connection Notes on the Accounts).
with ongoing litigation: –Adjusting items: The Committee undertook a review of all
Imperial Tobacco Canada (ITCAN): The Committee continued adjusting items, including those impacting profit from
to monitor the status of the CCAA proceedings under which operations (primarily amortisation of certain brands, provisions
Group subsidiary ITCAN filed for protection in 2019 following in respect of ITCAN and the CCAA proposed settlement,
the judgment of the Québec Court of Appeal in the Québec charges in respect of an excise assessment in Romania,
Class Action lawsuits, with stays currently in place until 3 impairment of certain intangible assets, litigation charges and
March 2025. The Committee determined it remained income from a settlement arrangement in connection with Fox
appropriate to consolidate ITCAN’s financial results in the River); impacting net finance costs (primarily in relation to a
Group financial statements whilst ITCAN continues to be gain on repurchase of a portion of Group debt); and impacting
subject to the CCAA proceedings. The Committee also on associates (in relation to a gain on the disposal of a portion
determined it was appropriate to recognise a provision related of the Group's investment in ITC) (see notes 4, 5, 6 7, 8(b), 9(a)
to the Group's best estimate of the potential liability in respect in the Notes on the Accounts).
of the proposed settlement plan published in October 2024
(see note 24 in the Notes on the Accounts).
196
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
–Segmental reporting assessment: The Committee Specific risk topics considered by the Committee included:
reassessed the Group reporting requirements and concluded –review of the Group's principal risks and emerging risks,
that the most appropriate segmentation, in line with IFRS 8 including identification of Climate Change and Circular
Operating Segments, remains geographic. Consideration was Economy as distinct Principal Risks, assessment of changes in
made to the Group’s management structure and information impact and likelihood of existing risks, and the report on the
provided to the chief operating decision maker (see note 2 in effectiveness of the Company’s risk management system prior
the Notes on the Accounts). While additional information on a to Board assessment;
category basis is provided, this is to assist the users of the
–evolution of physical and transitional climate change risks and
financial statements in understanding the Group’s performance
their impact on the Group, including climate change impacts,
alongside the performance on a geographic (regional) basis.
extreme weather events, greenhouse gas emissions, oversight
–Investments in Associates - Organigram Holdings, Inc. of processes in place to manage climate change risks, and
(OGI): Following recognition of impairment charges against the annual reporting on the identification, assessment and
carrying value of the Group's investment in OGI in 2022 and management of those risks, in continued alignment with the
2023, the Committee reviewed management's assessment of Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
the current carrying value of the assessment and concluded framework (discussed further at pages 120 to 136 and 161);
that the carrying value of the investment was appropriate and
–consolidation of risks associated with circular economy,
that no further impairment was required in 2024 (see note 14 in
including product sustainability, single-use plastics and waste
the Notes on the Accounts). The Committee also assessed the
management, into the Group's risk register, discussed at pages
accounting treatment applicable to further investments made
155 and 128;
by the Group in OGI in 2024 and determined management's
approach to be appropriate (see note 14 in the Notes on –current and emerging risks in relation to the Group’s digital
the Accounts). strategy and data management, with emphasis on digital
transformation, cyber security resilience, responsible use of AI,
–Foreign exchange and hyperinflation: In the context of Group
and the approach to managing those risks (discussed further
operations in certain jurisdictions with severe currency
at pages 162 and 199 to 201);
restrictions where foreign currency is not readily available,
including hyperinflationary jurisdictions such as Venezuela, the –oversight of the Group's sustainability data and reporting
Committee assessed management's approach to applicable programme established to develop sustainability reporting in
accounting treatment and confirmed that the methodologies alignment with EU CSRD and other recognised international
used to determine applicable exchange rates for accounting standards, including outcomes of the assessment of the
purposes were appropriate (see note 1 in the Notes on Group's sustainability Impacts, Risks and Opportunities (IROs)
the Accounts). identified in 2024 following the mapping of IROs across the
Group's value chain (discussed further below);
–risks associated with exposure to interest rate changes on net
finance costs arising from existing, new and refinanced debt
and restricted cash in the Group and actions to mitigate those
risks (discussed on page 160);
–revisions to the Group’s risk appetite framework as it relates to
the Group’s strategic objectives, and review of emerging risks
to the Group twice per year, prior to Board consideration; and
–submission of the Group’s annual compliance report to the U.S.
Department of Justice, in accordance with reporting
obligations specified under the deferred prosecution
agreement entered into by the Company.
+ For further information please refer to the Group Principal Risks on
pages 155 to 162 and the Group risk factors on pages 414 to 435
197
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit, Risk, Internal Control
Audit Committee
Continued
Risk Management and Internal Control Overview Emerging risks are assessed by the Board on potential impact
The Company maintains its framework of risk management and and likelihood and, where applicable, incorporated into the Group’s
internal control with a view to safeguarding shareholders’ risk register with appropriate mitigating activities. Emerging risks
investment and the Company’s assets. This framework is designed are reviewed by the Committee twice during the year, prior to
to identify, evaluate, manage and monitor risks that may impede Board assessment.
the Company’s objectives. It cannot, and is not designed to, As part of the Board's review of risks faced by the Group, the Board
eliminate risk entirely. considered the material climate-related risks and opportunities for
This framework provides a reasonable, not absolute, assurance the Group (discussed in the context of TCFD reporting on pages
against material misstatement or loss. The main features of the risk 120 to 136). In 2024, Climate Change and Circular Economy were
management and internal control framework operated within the recognised as distinct principal risks to the Group, taking into
Group are described below. The framework has been in place account the differing challenges and mitigation strategies in each
throughout the year under review and remains in place to date. context, enabling enhanced focus, assessment and management
It does not cover associates of the Group. of the specific risks associated with Climate Change and Circular
Economy. The Board and the Committee continue to monitor
Risk management
integration of sustainability-related risks and associated mitigation
Risks are actively assessed and mitigated at Group, functional,
activities into the Group's risk management framework over
directly-reporting business unit (DRBU) and market levels. Risk
the year.
registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used as
appropriate at Group, functional, above-market, DRBU and In 2024, the Committee oversaw the development of the Group's
individual market levels to identify, assess and monitor the sustainability reporting programme and evaluated the outcomes
risks (both financial and non-financial) faced by the business of the assessment of the Group's sustainability Impacts, Risks and
at each level. Opportunities (IROs) mapped across the value chain, in
preparation for planned disclosure of the Group's material IROs for
During the year, the Group amended its risk management
the 2025 financial year in alignment with EU CSRD. A consistent
framework to enable risks to be assessed on both an inherent and
methodology is applied across the Group for assessment and
residual basis and in a greater level of detail. Risks are now
quantification of sustainability risks and opportunities, utilising the
assessed and prioritised at five levels by reference to their impact
Group's risk management framework. The previously maintained
(severe/significant/moderate/minor/insignificant) and likelihood
sustainability risk register has been incorporated into the Group's
(probable/likely/possible/unlikely/remote). Mitigation plans are
sustainability reporting programme.
required to be in place to manage the risks identified, and progress
against those plans is monitored. The risk registers are reviewed on Internal controls
a regular basis. Group operating companies and other business units are annually
required to complete a controls self-assessment, called Control
The SAP Enterprise Risk Management module is used across the
Navigator, of the key controls that they are expected to have in
Group to record and track risk management activity. Functional
place. Its purpose is to enable them to self-assess their internal
and regional risk registers are reviewed biannually by the relevant
control environment, assist them in identifying any controls that
Regional Audit Committee or the Corporate Audit Committee, as
may need strengthening and support them in implementing and
appropriate. DRBU risk registers are reviewed as part of DRBU Risk
monitoring action plans to address control weaknesses. The
and Controls meetings. At the Group level, specific responsibility
Control Navigator assessment is reviewed annually to ensure that
for managing each identified risk is allocated to a member of the
it remains relevant to the business and covers all applicable key
Management Board. The Group risk register is reviewed twice
controls. In addition, at each year-end, Group operating companies
yearly by the Group Risk Management Committee, a committee of
and other business units are required to:
senior managers chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. Board level
oversight of risks to the Group is discussed below. –review their system of internal control, confirm whether it
remains effective, and report on any specific control deficiencies
Board oversight
and the action being taken to address them; and
During the year, the Board considered the nature and extent of Group
risks which are material to the Group and the delivery of its –review and confirm that policies and procedures to promote
strategic objectives (its ‘risk appetite’), and the Group's risk compliance with the SoBC are fully embedded and identify any
management and internal control framework. material instances of non-compliance.
The Group risk register is reviewed annually by the Board and twice The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant Regional
yearly by the Committee. The Board and the Committee review Audit Committees or to the Corporate Audit Committee, and to
changes in the status of identified risks, assess the changes in the Committee, to ensure that appropriate remedial action has
impact and likelihood and are briefed on any delayed mitigations. been, or will be, taken where necessary. The results are also
The Committee conducts detailed reviews on selected risks during considered by the SOx Steering Committee and the Disclosure
the year, with discussion of those risks at a more granular level with Committee in determining management’s opinion on the internal
senior managers responsible for managing and mitigating them. controls over financial reporting (ICFR).
Risk appetite is reviewed annually by the Board to ensure that it
remains appropriate and aligned with the Group's strategic
objectives. Alongside a robust assessment of the Principal Risks
and uncertainties facing the Group (including those that would
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or
liquidity and reputation), the Board also considers emerging risks
which may challenge the Group’s ability to achieve its strategic
objectives in the future.
198
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial reporting controls No material weaknesses were identified and the Committee is
The Group maintains a series of policies, practices and controls satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified,
in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, processes are in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and
designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks progress is monitored. In 2024, the Committee also reviewed the
arising from changes in the business or accounting standards scope of the external auditors’ SOx procedures, and received
and to provide assurance of the completeness and accuracy of reports on their progress with their independent assessment of
the Annual Report and Form 20-F. The Group Manual of ICFR across the Group.
Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out the Group Cyber Security Risk Management and Internal Controls
accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its internal Risk management and strategy
reporting requirements.
Cyber security is crucial to the Group’s business operations, as the
The internal reporting of financial information to prepare the Group relies on information and digital technology (IDT) systems
Group’s annual and half-year financial statements is signed off and networks to conduct core activities, such as manufacturing,
by the heads of finance responsible for the Group’s markets and distribution, marketing, customer service, R&D and financial and
business units. The heads of finance responsible for the Group’s management reporting, amongst other core activities.
markets and all senior managers must also confirm annually that
The Board acknowledges that cyber security threats present
all information relevant to the Group audit has been provided and
significant risks to the Group’s business, reputation, financial
that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in
condition and competitive position, and to the security and privacy
response to requests for information from the external auditors.
of our consumers, employees and other stakeholders. This is
The Committee Chair participated in the drafting and review particularly relevant as the Group transforms its business and
processes for the Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2024, and introduces new technologies, such as loyalty programmes,
engaged with the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Head of connected technologies and other interactive platforms, which
Internal Audit during the drafting and review processes. may alter its risk profile and are likely to increase the Group’s
'Fair, balanced and understandable' assessment exposure to such threats.
A key focus is to assess whether the Annual Report and Form 20-F The Group implements processes to identify, assess and manage
and financial statements are ‘fair, balanced and understandable’ in material cyber security risks. These processes are integrated into
accordance with the 2018 Code, with particular regard to: the Group’s overall risk management systems and processes,
–Fair: Consistency of reporting between the financial statements overseen by the Board and implemented by management. The
and narrative reporting of Group performance and coverage of Group implements various processes to manage and mitigate the
an overall picture of the Group’s performance; material risks from cyber security threats, including:
–Balanced: Consistency of narrative reporting of significant –implementing appropriate technical and organisational security
accounting judgements and key matters considered by the measures, such as defensive technologies, encryption,
Committee with disclosures of material judgements and authentication, and backup and recovery systems, to protect
uncertainties noted in the financial statements; appropriate use, the confidentiality, integrity and availability of IDT systems and
prominence and explanation of primary and adjusted networks, and the data stored on or transmitted through them;
performance measures; and –providing regular training and awareness programmes to Group
–Understandable: Clarity and structure of the Annual Report and company employees and contractors on cyber security best
Form 20-F and financial statements, appropriate emphasis of practices and procedures, adherence to our SoBC (including
key messages, and use of succinct and focused narrative with cyber security and information security requirements) and other
strong linkage throughout the report, to provide shareholders relevant standards;
with the information needed to assess the Group’s business, –maintaining vendor management processes for key vendors,
performance, strategy and financial position. including conducting due diligence and incorporating
SOx compliance oversight contractual obligations, intended to ensure that third-party
service providers with access to Group IDT systems and
The Company is subject to certain rules and regulations of U.S.
networks, or that process or store Group data, adhere to our
securities laws, including the U.S. Securities Exchange Act 1934
cyber security requirements and standards;
and SOx. SOx places specific responsibility on the Chief Executive
and Chief Financial Officer to certify or disclose information applicable –developing, maintaining and testing thorough incident response
to the financial statements, disclosure controls and procedures (DCP) and business continuity procedures designed to enable the
and internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR). This includes our Group to promptly detect, contain, analyse, report and recover
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer giving attestations in from any potential or actual incidents and minimise their impact
respect of ICFR effectiveness under §404 of SOx. on our operations and stakeholders;
The Committee has oversight of processes established to ensure –engaging external assessors, consultants and other third parties
full and ongoing compliance with applicable U.S. securities laws, as appropriate, to support cyber security risk assessment,
including SOx. Two committees provided assurance during 2024 identification and management processes and to provide
with regard to applicable SOx certifications. The Disclosure independent assurance and recommendations; and
Committee reviews the Company’s financial statements for –engaging with relevant internal and external stakeholders, such
appropriate disclosure, designs and maintains DCPs, and reports as regulators, law enforcement authorities, customers and other
to, and is subject to the oversight of, the Chief Executive and the industry stakeholders, on cyber security matters and being
Chief Financial Officer. prepared to disclose any material cyber security risks or
A sub-committee of the Disclosure Committee, the SOx Steering incidents in a timely and transparent manner.
Committee, provides assurance that ICFR have been designed, Our SoBC and Supplier Code of Conduct (discussed on page 116)
and are being operated, implemented, evaluated and disclosed both include requirements for cyber security risk management.
appropriately, in accordance with applicable requirements and
The Group regularly reviews and updates its cyber security risk
subject to the oversight of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial
processes to support alignment with business objectives,
Officer. The activities of this sub-committee are directly reported
regulatory requirements and industry standards. In view of the
to the Disclosure Committee. The outputs from the Disclosure
continued transformation of the Group’s business and evolution of
Committee and SOx Steering Committee were presented to and
the Group’s product portfolio, the Group is enhancing its digital
reviewed by the Committee.
risk management programme, including by revising its cyber
security controls and incident response plan, augmenting its cyber
199
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit, Risk, Internal Control
Audit Committee
Continued
security team, increasing engagement across the business and The Group's cyber security team actively monitors and evaluates
extending coverage to a broadening range of solutions and the evolving cyber security threat landscape. It assesses the
technologies to improve the identification, management, security posture of the Group’s IDT landscape using various tools,
monitoring and reporting of cyber risks. Feedback and learnings including vulnerability scans, penetration tests and control
from audits, assessments and incident reports are reviewed and assessments. Specialists are engaged on an annual basis to assess
used on a regular basis to enhance the Group’s cyber resilience the Group’s cyber security programme and identify and prioritise
programme and awareness. cyber security risks and vulnerabilities. Key findings from these
Cyber security risk management is integrated into, and follows, the assessments and incident summaries are reported periodically to
Group’s risk identification process (see page 198). Cyber security the Director, Digital & Information and to the Audit Committee,
risks are integrated into the Group risk register and assessed by accompanied by recommendations for mitigating or addressing
defined impact and likelihood categories (set out on page 198). any identified risks. Any significant cyber security incidents would
be reported as soon as reasonably practicable to the Audit
+ For additional information on cyber security threats and how these Committee and the Board in accordance with the Group’s incident
could materially affect our business strategy, results of operations or response procedures.
financial condition, refer to the Group Principal Risk 'Cyber Security'
on page 162 and Group risk factor 'Disruption to the Group's data Annual review
and information technology systems' on page 416 The Group's risk management and internal control framework
enables the Board and the Committee to monitor risk and internal
Governance and oversight
control management on a continuing basis throughout the year
The Board is responsible for the Group's strategy, including
and to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
oversight of the Group’s IDT and cyber security strategy, and for
With the support of the Committee, the Board conducts an annual
reviewing the effectiveness of its risk management and internal
review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and
control systems. On an annual basis, the Board reviews the Group
internal control framework. This review covers all material controls
risk register, which incorporates cyber security risks (discussed on
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
pages 162, 198 to 199 and 416). Through the Audit Committee’s
management systems. In conducting the oversight responsibilities
terms of reference, the Board has delegated certain
of the Board and the Committee, both forums meet with senior
responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including the review of the
management during the year to assess key judgements applied.
Group's risk management and internal control framework to
ensure there is due process for risk identification and In accordance with the 2018 Code, the Board, with advice from the
management, monitoring the effectiveness of material controls, Committee, has completed its review of the risk management and
reviewing the Group risk register and emerging risks, and internal control framework as described above and is satisfied that
monitoring procedures and controls for safeguarding assets the Group's risk management and internal control framework
including cyber security controls. accords with current requirements under the 2018 Code. Looking
ahead to the introduction of enhanced reporting on the
The Audit Committee reviews the Group risk register twice
effectiveness of material controls under Provision 29 of the 2024
annually and is briefed periodically on the cyber risk landscape and
UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee will oversee the
Group cyber resilience by the Group Chief Information Security
implementation of a programme to facilitate reporting in
Officer (CISO) (reporting to the Director, Digital & Information). In
alignment with the new requirements from financial year 2026.
2024, all Directors were briefed at an Audit Committee meeting on
the cyber risk landscape and the Group’s cyber security resilience + Refer to the Group Principal Risks on pages 155 to 162
programme by the Director, Digital & Information and the Group and Group risk factors on pages 414 to 435
CISO. The Audit Committee receives reports from the Corporate
Audit Committee, which monitors the effectiveness of risk
management and internal controls across the Group’s functions
and oversees the Group’s cyber security risk management
framework. The Corporate Audit Committee receives half-yearly
reports from the Group CISO on current and emerging cyber
security threats to the Group, measures taken to prevent, detect
and respond to those threats and efficacy of cyber security
controls and incident response plans.
The Group maintains a dedicated cyber security team, led by the
Group CISO, responsible for developing and implementing the
Group’s cyber security strategy, standards and procedures,
including to address any material incident that might arise. The
Group's cyber security team has appropriate professional
expertise, knowledge and experience in the field, including to
identify, assess and manage cyber security risks, maintain
appropriate security monitoring, incident response and business
continuity procedures, and to implement those should an incident
arise. Senior cyber security team members, including the Group
CISO, all have prior relevant industry experience. The Group CISO
has over 20 years of information security experience, previously
serving as CISO for GSK’s Pharmaceutical, Supply Chain, and R&D
divisions before joining the Group. Relevant industry certifications
are also held within the cyber security team, for example, Certified
Information Security Manager (CISM), Certified Information
Systems Auditor (CISA), Certified in Risk and Information Systems
Controls (CRISC), Certified Incident Handler, Certified Forensic
Analyst and Certified Information Systems Security Professional.
The team leverages professional memberships from ISACA and
SANS Institute for continuous professional development.
200
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Internal Audit function 2025 Internal Audit plan
The Group’s Internal Audit function is responsible for carrying out The Committee has approved the 2025 Internal Audit plan and
risk-based audits of Group companies, business units, factories, reviewed its alignment with the Group’s risk register to ensure it
global processes and major change initiatives. A separate Business enables robust coverage of Group risks and balanced coverage of
Controls Team provides advice and guidance on controls to the Group activities.
Group’s business units.
The design of the 2025 Internal Audit plan reflects the refreshed
In July 2024, the Committee approved the introduction of a Internal Audit strategy, to be aligned with the evolving assurance
refreshed internal audit strategy to develop the firm foundations requirements of the Group to deliver impactful assurance with
of the existing strategy in view of the evolving assurance emphasis on effective use of digital capabilities and data analytics.
requirements of the Group and the emergence of digital Audit engagements will continue to combine remote fieldwork with
capabilities within the business and as an audit tool. The refreshed focused site visits. and take account of assurance provided by
strategy emphasises assurance that is risk-focused and leverages second line of defence functions, including the Group's Business
data analytics for enhanced efficiency, within an organisation that Controls, Security and Business Integrity & Compliance teams.
fosters dynamic and diverse talent.
The scope of the 2025 Internal Audit plan was validated through
The purpose, authority and responsibilities of the Group’s Internal consideration of various perspectives, including the Group's
Audit function are defined by the Committee through the Group’s strategic objectives, risk assessments, evolving regulatory
Internal Audit Charter, which is reviewed by the Committee and requirements, external benchmarking, and value and volume of
refreshed on a three-year cycle. The Committee approved the activities. Its scope remains risk-focused, mapped to the Group’s
introduction of a revised Internal Audit Charter with effect from risk register and taking into account identified emerging risks.
September 2024 to reflect the Group's executive management
Internal audit engagements planned for 2025 include sustainability
structure and to maintain alignment with evolving market practice.
reporting, cyber security resilience, AI governance, sanctions and
Internal Audit effectiveness other regulatory compliance procedures, alongside robust
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal coverage of core business activities, lines of defence and IDT
Audit function annually, supported by an effectiveness review infrastructure and controls.
conducted periodically by an independent third party. In 2024, the Regional and Corporate Audit Committee framework
Committee's assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit The Group’s Regional Audit Committee framework underpins the
function was supported by an external quality assessment Audit Committee. It provides a flexible channel for review of risk
conducted by Deloitte LLP. This assessment was undertaken in topics relevant to each region of the Group, with committees for
accordance with the UK Institute of Internal Audit (IIA) standards, each of the Group's regions and for locally-listed Group entities
including interviews, analysis and peer benchmarking. and specific markets where appropriate.
Findings from the external quality assessment noted Internal Audit The Regional Audit Committees are supported by Risk and Control
to be a well-defined function, reflecting a role, remit and approach Committees established at business unit level, and within certain
that delivers value for the organisation. Taking into account the Group functions where applicable. This framework ensures that
outcomes of the assessment, the Committee considers the significant financial, social, environmental, governance and
Internal Audit function to be effective and to have the resources reputational risks faced by the Group are appropriately managed
needed to fulfil its mandate. Recommendations to enhance the and that any failings or weaknesses are identified so that remedial
effectiveness of Internal Audit included further opportunities to action may be taken.
optimise the use of technology and data analytics in the Internal
The Group’s Regional Audit Committees are chaired by the Chief
Audit function's ways of working, and plans will be developed to
Executive or the Chief Financial Officer, comprise members of the
address these recommendations in 2025.
Management Board and regularly attended by one or more Non-
2024 Internal Audit plan Executive Directors as observers.
The Group’s Internal Audit function works to a rolling audit plan,
The Corporate Audit Committee focuses on the Group’s risks and
prioritising risk areas aligned to the Group’s risk register. During
control environment that fall outside the regional committees’ remit,
2024, progress against the Internal Audit plan was regularly
including central functions, and global programmes, processes and
reviewed with the Committee to enable monitoring of the ongoing
projects. It comprises members of the Management Board and is
effectiveness of audit work, with flexibility to augment coverage of
chaired by a Regional Director or the Chief Operating Officer. One or
internal audits in response to emerging risks where appropriate.
more of the Non‑Executive Directors also regularly attend meetings
In 2024, internal audits covered various markets and business of the Corporate Audit Committee as observers.
units, manufacturing facilities and the Group’s own Leaf
External and internal auditors attend meetings of these committees
Operations in various locations, along with a balanced cross-
and have private audiences with members of the committees after
section of other business activities mapped to the Group risk
meetings as needed. Additionally, central, regional and individual
register, including digital network infrastructure and cyber security
market management, along with internal audit, support the Board in
resilience; supply chain, route to market and IDT efficiency
its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
programmes; responsible marketing controls; and sanctions
compliance procedures. Audits were conducted through a blend of
on-site fieldwork and remote auditing. Audit assignments
conducted during the year leveraged data analytics to optimise
efficiency, effectiveness and coverage of audits, and to provide
insightful assurance to business units.
The Committee reviews regular summary reports from the
Group Head of Internal Audit in respect of internal audits
conducted during the year and findings from those audits,
together with management feedback and agreed action plans
established where areas for improvement are identified.
The scope of each internal audit is assessed for SOx impact.
Reviews of SOx controls and their effectiveness are primarily
conducted by the Group’s Business Controls Team. Assurance
is also undertaken by the Group’s external auditors, as referred
to on page 202.
201
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit, Risk, Internal Control
Audit Committee
Continued
External Auditors
Audit Committees and the External Audit
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for the
Minimum Standard
relationship with the external auditors. KPMG LLP (KPMG) were initially
appointed as the Company’s auditors with effect from 23 March 2015,
following a competitive tender process carried out in 2015. During 2023,
the Committee conducted a formal tender process in respect of the The Company and its Audit Committee apply the 'Audit
external audit for the 2025 financial year. Following this tender process, Committees and the External Audit: Minimum
the Board accepted the recommendation of the Committee to appoint Standard' (Standard), published by the FRC in May 2023.
KPMG as the external auditor for financial year 2025. The Board This Annual Report and Form 20-F, and in particular this Audit
considers it is in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders for Committee report, sets out how the Standard has been applied
KPMG to be appointed as external auditor for the next financial year during the year. Pages noted below refer to specific discussion
and a resolution proposing KPMG's appointment will be put forward to relevant to the application of the Standard in this Annual Report
shareholders at the 2025 AGM. The conduct of the external audit and Form 20-F.
tender process for the 2025 financial year is discussed in full on page
Responsibilities
167 of the Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2023.
The Committee's responsibilities are set out in its terms of
reference, available at www.bat.com/governance. An overview
UK Competition and Markets Authority Audit Order of the Committee's responsibilities is provided at page 172 and
The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services the Committee's work programme for the year is discussed at
Order issued by the UK Competition and Markets Authority for page 195.
the financial year ended 31 December 2024. The Chair of the Committee provides a briefing to the Board
following each Committee meeting covering the Committee's
activities, including how it has undertaken its responsibilities in
Ways of working
relation to the external audit.
The external auditors report to the Committee in depth on the work
programme, scope and outcomes of the annual audit, including their The annual investor engagement programme provides a range
procedures in relation to internal controls over financial reporting. There of opportunities for shareholders to engage with the Company
is regular and open communication between the Committee and the on governance topics, including the scope of the external audit.
external auditors and with management. The Committee reviews and The Chair and other members of the Committee are available
discusses the external audit plan and the external auditors’ to meet with major shareholders on request. There were no
assessments of management's proposed treatment of significant requests from shareholders in 2024 for any specific matters
transactions and accounting judgements, inviting challenge and giving to be covered in the audit.
due consideration to points raised by the external auditors. During the Oversight of auditors and audit
year, the Committee also met independently with the external audit The Committee is responsible for overseeing and assessing
partner after every Committee meeting. Outside of Committee the external audit and the external auditors. The Committee's
meetings, the Committee Chair, the Chief Financial Officer, the approach to reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit
Director, Legal & General Counsel, the Group Head of Internal Audit and process and the external auditors' independence and
the Company Secretary all meet with the external auditors regularly objectivity is discussed at page 202. The Group maintains an
throughout the year to discuss relevant issues and the progress of the Auditor Independence Policy set out at page 203 and its
external audit. Any significant issues are also included on the application is overseen by the Committee. The external
Committee’s agenda. Further, access to personnel and records across auditors provided certain non-audit services to the Group
the Group is facilitated as required to enable the external auditors to during the year. Information on how auditor independence and
conduct the external audit. objectivity are safeguarded is provided on pages 202 to 204.
External auditor effectiveness The Committee has reviewed the FRC's audit quality inspection
The Committee carries out an annual assessment of the external and supervision report issued in July 2024 in respect of KPMG
auditors, including their expertise, qualification and resources, their and discussed the findings of that report with the External
objectivity and independence, and the quality and effectiveness of the Audit Partner.
audit process. This assessment takes into account the Committee’s
Tendering
interactions with, and observations of, the external auditors and a range
The Committee's approach to carrying out its responsibilities in
of other factors, including:
relation to the external audit tender process for the 2025
–experience and expertise of the external auditors in their financial year is discussed in full on page 167 of the Annual
communications with the Committee; Report and Form 20-F for 2023. As announced in the
–their mindset, objectivity and approach to challenging management’s Company's Half-Year report to 30 June 2023, the Board has
assumptions and judgements where necessary; accepted the recommendation of the Committee to appoint
KPMG as the external auditor for financial year 2025 and a
–the effectiveness and efficiency of the external auditors in completing
resolution proposing this appointment will be put forward to
the agreed external audit plan and whether that plan has been met;
shareholders for approval at the 2025 AGM.
–their approach to handling significant audit and accounting
Reporting
judgements;
The work of the Committee during the year is set out in the
–content, quality and robustness of the external auditors’ reports;
Audit Committee's report, including significant issues that the
–the Committee's review of the content of the external auditors' Committee considered in relation to the financial statements
management letter, and other communications with the Committee, at page 196. An explanation of the application of the Group's
to assess their understanding of the business and whether accounting policies is provided in the Notes on the Accounts
recommendations have been acted on (or if not, the reasons why not at pages 269 to 273.
acted on);
There were no regulatory inspections in relation to the
–provision by the external auditors of non-audit services, discussed Company's financial statements or audit for financial year 2023.
below, and other matters that may impact on their independence; Information about the review of the Company's Annual Report
and and Accounts to 31 December 2022 conducted by the FRC is
–relevant reviews and reports issued by external regulatory bodies, provided in the Annual Report and Form 20-F for 2023.
including the FRC and the PCAOB.
202
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The Committee’s assessment is further informed by feedback Group Auditor Independence Policy (AIP)
from the Group's Internal Audit function and from a survey The Group has an established AIP which was updated with effect
completed by members of the Group’s senior management to from 10 December 2024 to take account of developments in
obtain their perspectives on the effectiveness and quality of the regulatory guidance and market practice.
external auditors’ work. There were no material issues or risks to
The AIP reflects the requirements of applicable regulations, to
external audit quality identified through the external auditor
safeguard the independence and objectivity of the Group’s
effectiveness review in 2024. Actions identified through the review
external auditors and to specify the approval processes for the
have been discussed between the external auditors and
engagement of the Group’s external auditors to provide audit,
management and taken into account for planning for the following
audit-related and permissible non-audit services. The key principle
annual audit.
of the AIP is that the Group’s external auditors may only be
The Committee is satisfied with the qualification, expertise and engaged to provide services where the provision of those services
resources of KPMG as external auditors, that they have does not impair auditor independence and objectivity.
demonstrated an appropriate degree of objectivity and that their
The Committee recognises that using the external auditors to
independence is not in any way impaired by non-audit services
provide services can be beneficial given their detailed knowledge
which they provide.
of our business. However, the AIP does not permit the Committee
Audit Partner Rotation to delegate its responsibilities to the external auditors and the
The tenure of the current external audit partner, Mr Philip Smart, external auditors are only permitted to provide audit, audit-related
commenced from the start of the audit for the financial year 2021. and permissible non-audit services in accordance with the AIP. The
Audit Partner rotation is implemented in accordance with the AIP does not permit the external auditors to maintain a financial,
requirements of the FRC Ethical Standard and the U.S. SEC employment or business relationship with any Group company,
independence rules on partner rotation. or provide services to any Group company, which:
External audit fees –creates a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company;
The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of
–places the external auditors in the position of auditing their
engagement and remuneration of the external auditors and has
own work;
approved KPMG's terms of engagement and level of fees for 2024.
–results in the external auditors acting as a manager or employee
The Committee reviews a schedule identifying the total fees for all
of any Group company; or
audit and audit-related services, tax services and non-audit
–places the external auditor in the position of advocate for any
services expected to be undertaken by the external auditors in the
Group company.
following year. Tax services and other non-audit services in excess
of the thresholds in the Auditor Independence Policy must be Audit services are approved in advance by the Committee on the
itemised. Updated schedules are also submitted to the Committee basis of an annual engagement letter and the scope of audit
at mid- year and year-end, so that it has full visibility of the Group services is agreed by the Committee with the external auditors.
spend on services provided by the Group’s external auditors. Subject to the restrictions specified in the AIP, the external
A breakdown of audit, audit-related, tax services and non-audit auditors may also provide certain permissible non-audit services
fees paid to KPMG firms and associates in 2024 is provided in note with prior approval in accordance with the AIP. The requirement
6(m) in the Notes on the Accounts and is summarised as follows: for appropriate prior approval of permissible non-audit services
may be waived only if the aggregate amount of all permissible non-
Services provided by KPMG and associates 2024 audit services provided is less than 5% of the total amount paid to
the external auditors during the reporting year, where those
2024 2023
services were not recognised to be non-audit services at the time
£m £m
of engagement, and provided those permissible non-audit services
Audit services 21.6 20.8 are promptly brought to the attention of the Committee and their
Audit of defined benefit schemes 0.3 0.2 provision is approved prior to completion of the audit in the
relevant reporting year.
Audit-related assurance services 6.8 6.9
Total audit and audit-related
services 28.7 27.9
Other assurance services 0.7 0.9
Tax advisory services — —
Tax compliance — —
Other non-audit services — —
Total non-audit services 0.7 0.9
Note:
In 2024, non-audit fees paid to KPMG amounted to 2.4% of the audit and audit‑related
assurance fees paid to them (2023: 3.2%). All audit and non-audit services provided
by the external auditors in 2024 were pre-approved in accordance with the Group Auditor
Independence Policy.
203
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Audit, Risk, Internal Control
Audit Committee
Continued
The provision of permissible non-audit services must be put Speak Up
to tender if expected spend exceeds limits specified in the AIP, The Group maintains Speak Up channels which enable concerns
unless a waiver of this requirement, in accordance with the terms regarding SoBC compliance matters, including concerns about
of the AIP, is agreed by the Chief Financial Officer and notified to possible improprieties in financial reporting, to be raised in
the Committee. confidence (and anonymously should an individual wish) without
The AIP: fear of reprisal. Further information about these Speak Up
channels is set out on page 118.
–requires appropriate prior approval for all audit, audit-related and
permissible non-audit services, except in respect of permissible The SoBC includes the Group’s Speak Up policy, which is
non-audit services falling within the exceptions described above; supplemented by local procedures throughout the Group that
provide staff with further guidance on reporting matters and
–prohibits the provision of certain types of services by the external
raising concerns, and the channels through which they can do so.
auditors, including those with contingent fee arrangements, expert
services unrelated to audit and other services prohibited by U.S. The Board periodically reviews the Group’s Speak Up policy and
securities laws, the PCAOB and/or the FRC; reports arising from Speak Up channels. The Speak Up policy was
–prohibits the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group revised with effect from 1 January 2024 and introduced as part of
Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant (or any person the revised SoBC (discussed on page 118). The Board is satisfied
serving in an equivalent position) from having been employed by that the Group’s Speak Up policy and procedures enable
the external auditors in any capacity in connection with the proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised,
Group audit for two years before initiation of an audit; and ensure that appropriate follow-up action is taken.
–specifies requirements in respect of audit partner rotation, + Read more about Speak Up channels and Speak Up reports
including for both the lead and the concurring external audit on pages 118 to 119
partners to rotate off the Group audit engagement at least every
Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive
five years, and not to recommence provision of audit or audit-
and Senior Financial Officers
related services to the Group for a further five years; and
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the
–provides authority for the Committee to oversee any allegations
Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior
of improper influence, coercion, manipulation or purposeful
financial officers, as required by U.S. securities laws and NYSE
misleading in connection with any external audit, and to
listing standards. No waivers or exceptions to the Code of Ethics
review any issues arising in the course of engagement with
were granted in 2024.
the external auditors.
Political contributions
Group Standards of Business Conduct
The Group does not make contributions to UK political
The SoBC requires all staff to act with a high degree of business
organisations or incur UK political expenditure.
integrity, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and ensure
The total amount of political contributions made to non-UK
that standards are never compromised for the sake of results. All
political parties in 2024 was £23,922,755 (2023: £6,044,775)
Group companies have adopted the SoBC or local equivalent.
as follows: Reynolds American Companies reported political
Every Group company and all staff worldwide, including senior
contributions totalling £23,922,755 (US$30,573,281) for the full year
management and the Board, are expected to adhere to the SoBC
2024 to U.S. political organisations and to non-federal-level
or local equivalent. The SoBC and the Group’s Delivery with
political party and candidate committees in accordance with their
Integrity compliance programme are discussed on pages 118
contributions programme. No corporate contributions were made
to 119.
to federal candidates or party committees and all contributions
The Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the were made in accordance with applicable laws.
SoBC, and reports on this to the Board. Information on compliance
All political contributions made by Reynolds American Companies
with the SoBC is gathered at a regional and global level and reports
are assessed and approved in accordance with Reynolds
of SoBC allegations, including details of the channels through
American’s policies and procedures to ensure appropriate
which allegations are reported, are provided on a regular basis to
oversight and compliance with applicable laws.
the Regional Audit Committees, Corporate Audit Committee, and
In accordance with the U.S. Federal Election Campaign Act,
to the Committee.
Reynolds American Companies continue to support an employee-
A breakdown of SoBC contacts and SoBC allegations reported operated Political Action Committee (PAC), a non-partisan
across the Group in 2024 is set out on page 118. committee registered with the U.S. Federal Election Commission
that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible employees
+ The SoBC and information on the total number of SoBC contacts
and SoBC allegations reported in 2024 (including established of Reynolds American Companies. According to U.S. federal
breaches) is available at bat.com/sobc finance laws, the PAC is a separate segregated fund and is
controlled by a governing board of individual employee-members
of the PAC. In 2024, Reynolds American Companies incurred
expenses, as authorised by U.S. law, in providing administrative
support to the PAC.
No other political contributions were reported.
204
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Annual Statement on Remuneration
Introduction Despite a challenging macro-economic
Our new Remuneration Policy On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to environment and growing presence of illicit
will drive the Group’s ambition present to you the Directors’ Remuneration products in the top markets, the resilience
to transform into a predominantly Report for the year ended 31 December of BAT was reflected in our 2024
2024. This is my first report since being performance. We are tremendously proud
smokeless business, strengthen
appointed Chair of the Remuneration of the efforts made by the Group’s
the focus on the continued
Committee in April last year and I would like employees and management teams. Our
transformation of our portfolio, to thank my Board colleagues for their results are a reflection of the hard work and
incentivise the financial support and to acknowledge my commitment from our people throughout
performance of the Group, predecessor, Dimitri Panayotopoulos, for the Group.
support value delivery to his leadership of the Committee. Our focus during 2024
shareholders and attract and This year we will be asking shareholders to During 2024, the Committee has
retain high-calibre talent. vote on three resolutions at our 2025 AGM: conducted a comprehensive review of the
–Our new Directors’ Remuneration Policy current Directors’ Remuneration Policy,
Kandy Anand (the ‘Remuneration Policy’), which which has focused on ensuring the new
Chair of the Remuneration Committee outlines the remuneration framework Remuneration Policy supports the
that will apply to the Executive Directors, following strategic ambitions:
Non-Executive Directors and the Chair, –Growth of New Category products
following approval by shareholders (set –Responsible transition from
Remuneration Committee
out on pages 217 to 226); Combustibles
current members
–The 2024 Directors’ annual report on –Stewardship of the Group’s
Kandy Anand (Chair) remuneration, which sets out transformation
remuneration outcomes for 2024 and –Delivery of financial performance and
Karen Guerra
explains how the current remuneration sustainable returns to shareholders
Murray S. Kessler policy has been implemented in 2024 (set Our priority has been to ensure that the
Serpil Timuray out on pages 227 to 246); and new Remuneration Policy:
–The new 2025 British American Tobacco –Creates close, long-term links between
p.l.c. Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”) the Group’s senior management and our
rules which will replace the existing BAT shareholders.
2016 LTIP which expires next year
–Supports our need to compete for,
(further information is provided in the
attract and retain talent in the
Notice of AGM).
international market.
In 2024, we were delighted to welcome –Directly supports Group strategy delivery
Soraya Benchikh back to the Group as our and our A Better Tomorrow™ agenda,
Chief Financial Officer and Executive by rewarding high levels of sustainable
Director, completing appointments to the long-term performance in both an
Management Board team. Our refined appropriate and competitive manner.
strategy was launched during 2024, with –Is informed by shareholder perspectives,
a clearer articulation of our vision and a both from our engagement during 2024
greater focus on quality execution and and our last engagement on policy during
delivery, which has guided our continued 2021.
transformation.
–Continues to incorporate best practice
It was a year to build, invest, innovate policy features.
and refine for a sustainable future. Our
continued transformation this year added
more consumers to our Smokeless
products, which now account for 17.5%
of Group revenues. We made further
progress increasing profitability across
New Categories, delivering an increase
in New Categories contribution of
£251 million on an organic basis
(at constant FX).
The 2024 Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and as prescribed in The Large and
Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the UK
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations).
Remuneration Committee terms of reference
The Committee’s terms of reference align with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Revised terms of reference were introduced with effect from 1 August 2024.
+ For the Committee’s terms of reference see www.bat.com/governance
A changing business and talent landscape
205
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Annual Statement on Remuneration
Continued
Our transformation journey is seeing the Group evolve from being The Committee believes this simple structure is straightforward,
a predominantly single-category combustibles business to a performance led and provides the best means to align the
company with a global footprint and a multi-category product interests of the Executive Directors with those of our shareholders.
portfolio. We now manage five product categories, with 17.5% of The Committee consulted with shareholders and their
revenues delivered from our Smokeless products and overall representatives on the following four key changes to the
revenue growth of 75% since 2016. Remuneration Policy:
The Group is now a significantly larger and more complex organisation, –Increase in incentive plan opportunities to appropriately reflect
particularly following the acquisition of Reynolds American Inc. in the size, scope and complexity of BAT and support the Group’s
2017. Circa 44% of Group revenues and 54% of Group adjusted talent strategy as we transform.
profit from operations are derived from the U.S. market.
STI maximum LTI maximum
We compete for talent in over 100 markets, with the U.S. and UK opportunity opportunity
being our largest talent hubs, hosting circa 60% of the Group’s (% of salary) (% of salary)
senior leadership. Most of our key talent competitors are
Chief Executive No change Increase from
headquartered outside of the UK and this is reflected in our talent
(remains at 250%) 500% to 600%
inflow to BAT: over the last three years, at least one-third of all our
senior hires have joined the Group from U.S. companies. Chief Financial Increase from Increase from
Officer 190% to 200% 400% to 450%
Our transformation agenda has a clear influence on our talent
strategy. New capabilities are essential to support the Group’s
–Increase in shareholding requirements in line with the proposed
increasingly diverse operations, which requires diversification in
LTI maximum opportunity levels (600% and 450% of salary for
the talent sectors from which we recruit. Capability areas such as
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, respectively).
scientific research, product design and technical innovation,
digital and data science, to name a few, are fundamental to the –Rebalancing of the mandatory level of deferral in the STI to 25%
Group’s transformation. for Executives who have met their minimum shareholding
requirement, while maintaining a default deferral level of 50%
Consequently, over the last four years, we have seen an increasing
for those who have not yet achieved this threshold.
inflow of talent from consumer electronics, technology, and
pharmaceutical companies in addition to consumer goods. –Alignment of the level of LTI vesting at threshold for the
Similarly, we have lost talent to those sectors. Executive Directors with that of all other LTI participants, from
15% to 20%. The proposed change would remove an internal
The increasingly competitive global market for senior talent has
anomaly and align the level of vesting at threshold with prevailing
resulted in upwards pressure on pay. This has become more
market practice in the UK. This proposal was withdrawn
evident as we bring more senior external hires into the Company.
following discussions with shareholders.
With many U.S.-based candidates we observe that pay disparities
are particularly evident with incentive opportunities, which tend to As set out on page 212, the overall resultant package is positioned
be far above typical UK levels. around mid-market levels for the Chief Executive and below mid-
market levels for the Chief Financial Officer, compared to our
These changes in our competitive landscape have required several
International Pay Comparator Group. The incentive increases will
changes to the Group’s compensation programme, below the
be accompanied by a cap on salary increases for the Chief
Executive Directors, in order for us to be able to compete for talent
Executive, which will be held at or below the UK employee average
across senior management levels. Since 2020, the Group has
for the lifetime of the new Remuneration Policy.
increased incentive opportunities across senior management
levels on two occasions, re-designed its short-term incentives (“STI”) In addition, the review focused on implementation of the
to become more competitive and market relevant and redesigned its Remuneration Policy including the composition of our International
long-term incentives (“LTI”) with the same objectives. Pay Comparator Group and specific performance measures for
2025. In relation to our International Pay Comparator Group, several
These changes, while absolutely necessary, have created a pay
companies (including a number of larger US companies) have been
compression challenge for the Group. Incentive opportunities for
removed to better reflect the market within which BAT competes for
the Chief Executive were last reviewed nine years ago, in 2016. The
senior talent.
current remuneration policy now limits our ability to develop
appropriately leveraged and differentiated pay for performance, Changes are also proposed to performance measures and
both for the Executives and the wider senior leadership population. weightings for 2025, to ensure our incentives continue to support
Consequently, the Group carries a risk with talent attraction, the Group’s ambition to transform into a predominantly smokeless
retention and succession planning in what is an international business with a greater balance between top and bottom-line
market and a challenging category. delivery, and a focus on returns on incremental investment as we
continue to transform and invest in new products and innovations.
While these competitive headwinds have not yet resulted in higher
Specifically, through the review of the Remuneration Policy, we
employee turnover for the Group, we do experience an elevated
have sought to:
vacancy rate across senior management levels, with lengthening
times to hire. These changes in the Group’s business and the –Strengthen the focus on improving profitability in New
competitive pressures in the talent marketplace have been key Categories.
influences behind the proposals to adjust incentive opportunities –Ensure there is an increased emphasis on the continued
for the Executive Directors, which are covered in further detail in transformation of our portfolio.
the next section.
–Incentivise the financial performance of the Group.
New Remuneration Policy
–Improve our ability to compete for, attract and retain talent in
The Committee commenced its review of the Directors’ the international market.
Remuneration Policy in early 2024. Initially a range of different
The proposed changes represent an evolution of the current
incentive structures were considered recognising the diverse
Remuneration Policy and its implementation rather than a
range of remuneration frameworks used by companies within our
fundamental reset. The Committee will however keep the
international peer group. It was however determined that overall
Remuneration Policy under review to ensure it continues to
the current incentive structure remains appropriate, with our long-
support the Group’s transformation and long-term value creation
term incentive plan continuing to operate as a performance share
for all stakeholders. The Remuneration Policy will be subject to
plan for the Executive Directors.
shareholder approval at the 2025 AGM.
206
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder engagement
The latter part of 2024 was dedicated to a programme of engagement with shareholders on the proposals. We have engaged with
shareholders representing circa 60% of our issued share capital, together with The Investment Association, Institutional Shareholder
Services and Glass Lewis.
Our programme of engagement has helped to refine and improve proposals and ensure that changes to the Remuneration Policy and its
implementation are focused and relevant. Initial feedback indicated:
–That shareholders were broadly supportive of the proposal to increase incentive opportunities in the context of our transformation
journey and our strong focus on pay for performance.
–That proposals to strengthen the focus on New Categories contribution to Group profitability within the STI and the LTI are timely and
relevant for the Group.
–There were opportunities to reconsider the balance and weighting between metrics in both the STI and LTI and some specific
performance conditions. Consequently, some changes to the original proposals, as further listed below, have been made for 2025.
–There were opportunities to reconsider the increase in LTI threshold vesting given the proposed increases in LTI opportunity.
Recognising this feedback, the Committee decided to retain threshold vesting at 15% and not implement the originally proposed
change to 20%.
The tables that follow summarise the proposals put forward by the Committee during the engagement, the key points
of feedback received from shareholders and advisory bodies, and the changes made by the Committee taking into account the
feedback received.
Short-Term Incentive Plan (STI)
Engagement with shareholders has focused on opportunities to strengthen the emphasis on New Categories contribution to Group
profitability, together with the incentivisation of the continued financial performance of the Group. The Committee considers that the
proposed changes outlined below will strengthen alignment with the Group’s long-term strategy delivery and the interests of
shareholders.
Summary of changes
2024 measures Original proposal for 2025 Final proposal for 2025
Volume Share Growth 10% Total Revenue Growth 10% Total Revenue Growth 10%
Adjusted Profit from Operations 25% Adjusted Profit from Operations 25% Adjusted Profit from Operations 30%
Adjusted Cash Generated from Operations Adjusted Cash Generated from Operations Adjusted Cash Generated from Operations
30% 25% 25%
Transformation metrics Transformation metrics
New Categories Revenue Growth 15% New Categories Revenue Growth 15% New Categories Revenue Growth 12.5%
New Categories Adjusted Gross Profit New Categories Adjusted Gross Profit
New Categories Contribution 20% Margin 15% Margin 12.5%
Sustainability – Climate 10% Sustainability – Climate 10%
1.Introduction of ‘Total Revenue Growth’ metric
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
The introduction of ‘Total Revenue Growth’ with a 10% weighting, Shareholders have welcomed the introduction of ‘Total Revenue
replacing the ‘Volume Share Growth’ metric. This metric will Growth’ to the STI as a relevant metric alongside profit and
incentivise optimal value delivery from the traditional business cash delivery.
together with continued growth in New Categories, in the context Some shareholders wanted to understand the rationale to move
of changing market and consumer dynamics. away from ‘Volume Share Growth’, as this metric was a well-
established feature of the STI.
Committee response
We have discussed with shareholders that the new metric is preferable as it supports a balanced focus across the Group’s entire
portfolio, recognising both current and future sources of value. The ‘Volume Share Growth’ metric had some inherent limitations in
measuring performance across combustibles and heated products only.
207
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Annual Statement on Remuneration
Continued
2. Introduction of ‘New Categories Adjusted Gross Profit Margin’ metric
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
The introduction of ‘New Categories Adjusted Gross Profit Margin’ Shareholders have been supportive of the introduction of this new
with a 12.5% weighting. This metric will support the improvement metric. Some shareholders wanted to understand if this new
in the profitability of New Categories as we continue the metric had replaced the focus on New Categories Contribution in
transformation and premiumisation of our portfolio. the Group's incentive plans.
Committee response
The Committee understands the feedback from shareholders and has ensured that there is a continued focus on New Categories
Contribution, which now features in the LTI as part of the ‘New Categories Contribution Margin’ metric.
Full information on the New Categories Adjusted Gross Profit Margin is available in our financial disclosures, providing
shareholders with information on our performance. Further details are provided in the Quality Growth section starting from page
26 and in the non-GAAP measures section starting on page 399.
3. Introduction of ‘Sustainability – Climate’ metric
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
The introduction of the ‘Sustainability – Climate’ metric, with a 10% Shareholders have broadly been supportive of the introduction of
weighting. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is a this new metric. Some shareholders wanted to understand why
significant matter for the Group, as reflected in our annual double the STI was selected, rather than the LTI, whether other
materiality assessment. This metric directly supports our stated sustainability metrics were considered, such as supply chain
ambition to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our operations labour standards or circularity, and sought confirmation that
by 50% by 2030 and is directly linked to our externally reported performance would be subject to a quantitative assessment.
targets.
Committee response
The Committee did consider several options for sustainability metrics. The possible adoption of a climate metric was raised by
shareholders during our 2021 policy engagement. We have returned to this proposal, as the Group now has a well-established
externally reported metric to measure performance in this area.
Alternative metrics such as supply chain labour standards and human rights were not considered as appropriate for incentive plans.
The Group has made significant inroads in reducing instances of child labour in our supply chain, and our due diligence processes and
ongoing independent assessments will provide ongoing focus in this important area; please refer to page 109 for further details.
The Committee recognises the importance of circularity, recycling of materials and the reduction of virgin raw materials in our
products. At the present time the Company is looking to establish robust measures of performance in this area. Consequently, the
introduction of a circularity metric would be premature at this stage. This will be kept under review, for consideration in the future.
The inclusion of the climate metric in the STI at this stage supports performance in managing an important sustainability matter in the
Group’s business. The STI allows for a straightforward assessment of progress year-on-year, against quantitative and reported targets.
Significantly, inclusion in the STI will generate substantial reach throughout BAT, promoting alignment with circa 19,000 participants in
the plan.
4. STI metrics and weightings
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
The STI has been constructed with an allocation of metrics to Shareholders have broadly been supportive of the allocation of
support the Group’s financial performance, complemented by metrics between supporting financial delivery and the continued
a discrete group of metrics which are relevant to the continued transformation of the Group. Some shareholders did express
transformation of the business. Minor adjustments were proposed a preference for some re-weighting from the transformation
between the weightings of metrics, with a slightly lower weighting metrics to Adjusted Profit from Operations.
attached to the adjusted profit and cash metrics (50% in
aggregate versus 55% in aggregate in the current plan).
Committee response
The Committee has considered the feedback carefully and understands the views of shareholders and the interest in retaining an
appropriate weighting towards financial performance.
Consequently, the Committee has decided to make an adjustment to weightings between metrics; the ‘New Categories Revenue
Growth’ metric will be re-weighted from 15% to 12.5%, the New Categories Adjusted Gross Profit Margin metric will be re-weighted
from 15% to 12.5% and the ‘Adjusted Profit from Operations’ metric will be re-weighted from 25% to 30%, retaining a total weighting
of 55% on adjusted profit and cash metrics in line with the current plan.
208
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Engagement with shareholders has focused on opportunities to strengthen the emphasis on portfolio transformation, together with
the incentivisation of the continued financial performance of the Group. The Committee considers that the proposed changes outlined
below will strengthen alignment with the Group’s long-term strategy delivery and the interests of shareholders.
Summary of changes
2024 measures Original proposal for 2025 Final proposal for 2025
Relative TSR 20% Relative TSR 20% Relative TSR 20%
EPS (current / constant) 30% EPS at constant rates 20% EPS at constant rates 25%
Operating Cash Flow Conversion 20% Operating Cash Flow Conversion 20% Operating Cash Flow Conversion 20%
Transformation metrics Transformation metrics
New Categories Revenue Growth 15% Smokeless Revenue / Total Revenue 10% Smokeless Revenue / Total Revenue 10%
Revenue Growth 15% New Categories Spend Effectiveness 15% New Categories Contribution Margin 10%
Return on Capital Employed 15% Return on Capital Employed 15%
1.‘Earnings per share at constant rates’ metric
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
The ‘Earnings per share’ metric is retained but its operation The majority of shareholders have expressed comfort with the re-
simplified to constant rates only, thereby focusing on performance positioning of the EPS metric to constant rates, recognising the
as a result of management decisions. The Group has a substantial fact that this centres the metric on performance arising from
international presence and sterling, being the Group’s reporting management decisions. Some shareholders have expressed a
currency, has experienced significant fluctuations as a result of preference for a higher weighting to attach to the EPS metric.
various economic factors which are outside of management’s
control. Re-positioning to constant rates provides a continued
focus on quality earnings delivery, based on management’s
performance. This metric aligns the Group’s approach with that
of comparable multinationals, including tobacco peers.
Committee response
The Committee is satisfied that EPS at constant rates is the appropriate metric to focus on quality of earnings delivery as this
eliminates foreign exchange volatility from the translation of local currency results to sterling. Transactional foreign exchange is not
eliminated as this is deemed to be a cost of operations when acquiring foreign currency denominated inputs as part of our operations.
The EPS performance measured at constant rates approach is aligned with that taken by other multinationals and other tobacco
peers. Shareholder feedback on the weighting that attaches to the metric is understood, a proposed change in weighting is detailed
on page 210.
2. Introduction of ‘Smokeless Revenue / Total Revenue’ metric
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
As a Group we are committed to becoming a predominantly The majority of shareholders have expressed comfort with the
Smokeless business, targeting 50% of our revenues from introduction of this new metric, recognising its importance in
Smokeless products by 2035. This metric directly supports this supporting the Group’s ambition to become a predominantly
strategic ambition and incentivises the continued transformation Smokeless business.
of our portfolio and changes in sources of revenue.
Committee response
The Committee is satisfied that this metric is strongly aligned with the Group’s strategy. The metric incentivises the continued
transformation of our portfolio and any risk of underperformance in the traditional business’s flattering performance is addressed
through the presence of Total Revenue Growth, Profit, Cash and EPS metrics in the STI and PSP.
3. Introduction of ‘New Categories Contribution Margin’ metric
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
As part of the Group’s strategic ambition of delivering ‘Quality While shareholders have understood the rationale for this new
Growth’, the Committee had proposed the introduction of a New metric, several have wanted to understand the basis of
Categories Spend Effectiveness metric. The metric looked to measurement for this new metric, the ease with which
assess the effectiveness of our New Categories investments and performance delivered may be understood and the extent
encourage focus and discipline with geographic expansion plans to which financial disclosures will support a straightforward
and new product introductions. appraisal of performance.
Committee response
The Committee appreciates the feedback provided by shareholders and has decided to reposition the metric to 'New Categories
Contribution Margin'. This metric will incentivise continued profitable growth in the New Categories business, as per our 'Quality
Growth' agenda, and performance can be easily understood, supported by our financial disclosures. Further details can be found
starting on page 399.
209
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Annual Statement on Remuneration
Continued
4. Introduction of ‘Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)’ metric
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
Capital effectiveness, continuing a disciplined approach to capital Shareholders have welcomed the introduction of this metric; the
allocation and debt management, is critical to our business. Its potential inclusion of ROCE has been an ongoing discussion with
inclusion in the PSP will incentivise effective value creation and shareholders since the 2021 engagement on policy.
support allocation to shareholders, the business and to fund M&A Some shareholders have raised the basis of measurement for
opportunities as appropriate. The metric is an existing, reported ROCE, specifically in relation to how any adjustments for
measure of the Group’s performance. amortisation and goodwill impairment will be managed
consistently in both the Group’s profit delivery and the capital base.
Committee response
The Committee appreciates the feedback provided by shareholders and the importance of consistency in how performance is viewed
under this metric. Group performance will be measured in line with the Group’s financial reporting standards to maintain consistency
with our wider disclosures. Material events (e.g. material impairments and/or acquisitions) will be reported to and considered by the
Committee, should they arise, as part of the assessment of the Group’s underlying performance. Measurement of performance is
based on an average growth rate over the 3-year performance period to moderate potential foreign exchange rate fluctuations which
may impact the ROCE in a specific year.
5. PSP metrics and weightings
Proposed change and rationale Shareholder feedback
The PSP has been constructed with an allocation of metrics to Shareholders have broadly been supportive of the allocation of
support the Group’s financial performance, complemented by a metrics between supporting financial delivery and the continued
discrete group of metrics which are relevant to the continued transformation of the Group. Several shareholders did express a
transformation of the business. Adjustments were proposed preference for some re-weighting from the transformation
between the weightings of metrics, with a slightly lower weighting metrics to the EPS at constant rates metric.
attached to the EPS and cash metrics (40% in aggregate versus
50% in aggregate in the current plan).
Committee response
The Committee has considered the feedback carefully and understands the views of shareholders and the interest in retaining an
appropriate weighting towards financial performance.
Consequently, the Committee has decided to make an adjustment to weightings between metrics; the ‘New Categories Contribution
Margin’ metric will be re-weighted from 15% to 10% and the ‘EPS at constant rates’ metric will be re-weighted from 20% to 25%,
retaining a total weighting of 80% on financial metrics.
International Pay Comparator Group
We have updated our International Pay Comparator Group to appropriately reflect the talent marketplace within which BAT competes.
The pay comparator group is also used for the broader management population. Company selection is based on a number of factors,
including whether individual businesses are a source of relevant capabilities to BAT, their size, scale, geographical footprint, evidence of
talent interaction with BAT over time (recruitment, attrition) and comparability of pay practices. Consequently, the following companies
were removed from our pay comparator group: Anheuser-Busch InBev, Accenture, Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson and Microsoft.
Shareholder feedback
Shareholders have been supportive of the proposed changes, recognising that the resulting group is primarily weighted towards
consumer goods companies and tobacco peers, with a balanced representation between the UK, Europe and the U.S.
Some shareholders did want to better understand the relevance of sectors such as technology and the pharmaceutical sector to BAT
and some did express a preference to remove Salesforce from the comparator group.
Committee response
The Committee is satisfied that the revised comparator group encompasses sectors which reflect the Group’s capability requirements
and the talent marketplace within which BAT competes. The balanced mix of UK, European and U.S. companies, approximately a third
each, reflects the internationality of the Group and the significance of the U.S. to our business, representing potential sources of
recruitment or attrition.
The Committee has considered further the evidently higher pay practices which are typical in the U.S. market and the feedback
from shareholders and has decided to also remove Salesforce from the comparator group. The constituents of the International
Pay Comparator Group will be kept under review and may be updated by the Committee from time to time. The revised peer group
is shown below.
Peer Group
UK Europe U.S.
AstraZeneca, Diageo, GlaxoSmithKline, Bayer, Danone, Heineken, L'Oréal, LVMH, Altria, Coca-Cola, Kraft Heinz, Mondelēz
Imperial Brands, Reckitt Benckiser, Nestlé, Novartis, Siemens International, Nike, PepsiCo, Procter &
Unilever, Vodafone Gamble, Philip Morris International
210
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Incentive plan opportunities
We have explored with shareholders how the challenges posed by the competitive environment may be addressed in a thoughtful and
appropriate way. The Committee has considered the matter carefully and is acutely aware of the sensitivities related to the quantum of
executive remuneration. It is important that the Remuneration Policy appropriately reflects the size, scope and complexity of the Group
and supports talent engagement to lead the next stage of BAT's transformation, particularly as incentive opportunities for the Chief
Executive were last reviewed in 2016.
The following illustrative scenarios, based on targeted changes to incentive plan opportunities, were shared with shareholders as a basis
for discussion.
Changes to incentive opportunities
STI maximum opportunity LTI maximum opportunity
(% of salary) (% of salary)
Chief Executive 250% (no change) Increase from 500% to 600%
Chief Financial Officer Increase from 190% to 200% Increase from 400% to 450%
The Committee believes that these targeted changes are now essential, given the changes in the Group’s business and competitive
landscape as well as internal pay compression challenges. While there is a modest adjustment to the Chief Financial Officer’s STI
maximum opportunity from 190% to 200%, the proposed changes are LTI-led, thereby aligning to long-term performance with any value
delivered not realised until at least 2030 when the 2025 LTI awards will be released. Overall, these changes result in a slight improvement
in Total Direct Compensation positioning versus our revised International Pay Comparator Group.
The illustration of the current incentive levels compression at BAT versus a typical spread within our comparator group is shown below.
The distance between the levels represent the spread in incentive opportunities within BAT versus market, expressed in percentage
points (ppt). In market terms the spread between levels is nearly double versus BAT indicating an internal pay compression.
Illustration of the incentive levels compression at BAT versus a typical spread
within our International Pay Comparator Group
30ppt
60ppt
60ppt
120ppt
Other Executives Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive
Note:
The chart above illustrates the difference (in percentage points) in target STI and expected value of LTI incentive opportunities for the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other
executives at BAT, compared to the companies within our International Pay Comparator Group. For example, the difference in STI incentive opportunity between the Chief Executive and
the Chief Financial Officer is 30ppt at target levels of performance in BAT compared to 60ppt within the International Pay Comparator Group. The chart further illustrates the relative
distance between Executive Director level and next level executives at BAT and the market.
211
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Annual Statement on Remuneration
Continued
Shareholder feedback
Shareholders have been receptive to the context and rationale provided for these proposed changes, with many viewing the proposed
adjustments as an evolution in the Group’s practice in response to a changing market.
Shareholders have acknowledged that changes are primarily LTI-led, ensuring greater emphasis on long-term value creation and
reinforce our pay for performance principles. The accompanying increase to the minimum shareholding requirements were also noted as
a positive and appropriate change.
Several shareholders highlighted the importance of accompanying these changes with appropriately stretching performance targets, to
ensure there is a strong alignment between results delivery and remuneration.
Committee response
The increase in scope, size and complexity of our business since the last material review of our incentives opportunities in 2016, together
with the evolving talent requirements of our business and the challenges related to pay compression among our senior population, mean
these changes are essential.
While the Committee is aware of the differences in executive remuneration between the UK, Europe and the U.S., the proposals are
not driven by benchmarking data, nor does the Committee look to match pay levels in the U.S. The Group’s ability to compete
internationally is fundamentally important and the changes discussed will help towards levelling the playing field in competing for
international talent, while remaining aligned with expectations of BAT as a FTSE-listed company. The resultant pay positioning of the
Executive Directors following these changes is that the Chief Executive’s total target direct compensation (‘TDC’) would be positioned
around mid-market levels when compared to the revised International Pay Comparator Group and the Chief Financial Officer’s TDC
would be positioned below mid-market levels.
An illustration of the potential TDC competitive positioning, at current and new Remuneration Policy levels, for the Chief Executive and
the Chief Financial Officer against the companies within our revised International Pay Comparator Group is provided below:
Illustration of total target direct compensation1 (‘TDC’) position of BAT versus the revised International Pay
Comparator Group
£7.3mn £8.1mn
(£7.8mn)
£3.5mn £3.8mn
(£4.4mn)
BAT TDC at new Remuneration Policy levels
BAT TDC at current Remuneration Policy levels
Note:
1. Total target direct compensation represents 2024 salary plus target STI plus expected value of the LTI (for comparison purposes, a 60% of maximum LTI opportunity was used in the
chart above). The STI and LTI values are calculated at current and new Remuneration Policy levels to allow comparison.
Our LTI will continue to operate as a performance share plan. We believe this simple structure is straightforward, performance-led and
provides the best means to align with shareholder interests.
The Committee recognises shareholder feedback in relation to target setting and ensuring there is sufficient stretch with performance
expectations. It is a fundamental belief of the Committee that performance expectations should be demanding, as evidenced in LTI
results over the last 10 years. Please refer to page 236 for further details. Details of the 2025 LTI performance targets are provided on
page 240.
The proposed increase to incentive quantum will also be accompanied by a cap on annual salary increases for the Chief Executive, which
would be held at or below the UK employee average for the lifetime of the new Remuneration Policy.
212
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
STI mandatory deferral 2024 Target Setting
In line with the current Remuneration Policy, the STI is awarded The performance targets set by the Committee early in the year
50% in cash and 50% in shares through the Deferred Share Bonus have remained unchanged throughout the 2024 performance
Scheme. We are proposing to rebalance the level of mandatory period. 2024 target setting focused on the continuation of the
deferral in the STI from 50% to 25% for Executive Directors who Group’s commitment to Building a Smokeless World, with active
have met their minimum shareholding requirement, while investment choices made to enhance our capabilities and
maintaining a default deferral level of 50% for those who have not accelerate our transformation, while delivering value through our
yet achieved this threshold. combustibles business supported by strong cash flow generation
This policy change reflects multiple considerations. The Group’s to reduce leverage and provide flexibility to the Group.
shareholding requirements are significant; subject to approval of The New Categories revenue growth targets in both the STI and
the proposed LTI opportunity levels, the requirements are set at 6x LTI plans emphasise the importance of New Categories growth in
salary for the Chief Executive and 4.5x salary for the Chief Financial our long-term strategy and Sustainability agenda, providing focus
Officer, providing significant alignment for our Executive Directors on in-year delivery through our STI plan, and focusing on
with shareholder interests whilst in employment and post- cumulative and sustained performance over a three-year period
employment. Only once the minimum shareholding requirement through our LTI plan.
is achieved, will the adjusted deferral level of 25% take effect,
As reported previously, in 2023, the Group finalised the sale of the
ensuring that our Remuneration Policy continues to enable the
Russian and Belarusian businesses, therefore the targets for 2024
build-up of shareholding at pace but also provides additional
were set on an organic basis, excluding the Russian and Belarusian
flexibility once a threshold level of shareholding is established.
businesses from both 2023 and 2024 results.
The policy change helps to better align our pay practices with
The 2022 LTI performance measures and targets have remained
global peers and remains aligned with the guidelines provided by
unchanged during the three-year performance period. In assessing
shareholder advisory bodies.
performance results for the 2022 LTI award against the targets set
Shareholder feedback at the start of the performance period, performance has been
Shareholders have confirmed during the engagement that they assessed excluding the Russian and Belarusian businesses disposal
are comfortable with the proposed change, recognising that it is impact from the 2023 and 2024 results while performance in 2022
consistent with existing practice in the market and alignment will be assessed as previously reported. This approach provides a
with the guidance provided by shareholder advisory bodies. fair, balanced, and understandable measurement of the LTI
Some shareholders did look to understand if there were any outcomes by excluding material one-off events to ensure
potential implications regarding the Group’s ability to use malus comparability period to period.
and clawback in the future, should it be necessary. 2024 Short-Term Incentive
Committee response Our 2024 performance continued to demonstrate our focus on
The Committee has carefully reviewed the malus and clawback delivery against our strategic priorities, with New Categories being
provisions within the Remuneration Policy, which remain a core a greater driver of Group performance and a key performance
element of our risk mitigation strategy. The Committee is satisfied metric of the STI and the LTI plans. In 2024, organic revenue was up
that at a lower level of deferral there remains material value (at constant rates of exchange), driven by New Category revenue
attached to in-flight awards under the deferred share bonus growth (organic) which increased by 8.9% to £3,551 million (at
scheme. Malus and clawback will remain fully enforceable constant rates of exchange) with Smokeless products now
following this change and include a comprehensive set of trigger representing 17.5% of Group revenue.
events (further details on malus and clawback provisions are on New Categories organic contribution improved by £251 million
page 221). through volume growth, strong pricing and cost of sales
Performance and Remuneration Outcomes for 2024 productivity savings. We have outperformed the 2024 targets for
The “At a Glance” section provides an overview of our financial this measure, which were set in relation to the original 2025
performance and how it translates into outcomes under the STI and ambition, enabling the Group to accelerate progress early in this
LTI plans, with further details provided on pages 229 and 230. After critical area of our business. Adjusted organic profit from
reflecting on a range of considerations as described further in this operations (at constant rates of exchange) improved by 1.4%, driven
report, the Committee was satisfied that the current Remuneration by accelerated growth in New Categories profitability and further
Policy had operated as intended during the year and confirmed costs saving initiatives. Cash delivery continued to be strong
that no discretion has been exercised by the Committee. realising circa £8.0 billion of adjusted organic cash generated from
operations (at constant rates). Group volume share (of cigarettes
and heated products) in top markets increased by 10 bps. The
above performance translates into a result of 78.6% of maximum
opportunity. Further details of the performance against targets for
the 2024 STI measures are set out on page 229.
213
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Annual Statement on Remuneration
Continued
2022 Long-Term Incentive Wider Workforce Context
In assessing performance results for the 2022 LTIP award against We remain committed to prioritizing employees’ wellbeing and
the targets set at the start of the performance period, performance providing support especially in markets where macro-economic
has been assessed on an organic basis for the 2023 and 2024 factors are affecting employees’ ability to maintain acceptable
financial years by excluding the Russian and Belarusian businesses standards of living. Throughout 2024, we remained focused on
disposal impact (where applicable) as described above. our employees’ diverse needs and continued to make significant
The outcomes are reflected below: reward related investments where necessary to alleviate the
impact of macro-economic challenges, including inflationary one-
–Total shareholder return (TSR) relative to peers (20%): BAT TSR
off lump sum payments, regular salary increases, and off-cycle
ranked 5th out of 15 amongst our TSR peer group of companies
targeted salary increases. These initiatives covered 11 markets with
(page 230).
an overall spend of £10.9 million across circa 6,000 employees.
–Adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) (30%): We measure
adjusted diluted EPS at current and constant rates of exchange Additionally, in May 2024, we launched our Global Benefits &
(equally weighted). The three-year adjusted diluted EPS compound Wellbeing framework to all markets. The framework is designed to
annual growth rate (CAGR) was 4.4% and 4.9%, at current and support renewing our offerings and policies to be truly inclusive. It
constant rates, respectively. provides greater flexibility and choice to meet the diverse needs of
–Group revenue growth (15%): The three-year Group revenue our populations, supporting our health and wellbeing agenda and
CAGR was 2.2% at constant rates of exchange. our wider sustainability, diversity and inclusion programmes.
– New Categories revenue growth (15%): The three-year Group The Remuneration Committee keeps up to date with the views of our
revenue CAGR was 21.8% at constant rates of exchange. wider workforce drawing from a range of well-established engagement
–Operating cash flow conversion ratio (20%): We have continued our channels worldwide to enable a robust understanding of the issues
strong track record of cash conversion delivery, resulting in a affecting the workforce globally. For more information on engagement
100.6% operating cash flow conversion ratio at current rates with the wider workforce refer to page 235.
measured over three years. The Committee considers executive pay in this broader context,
The above performance translates into an outcome of 42.1% of seeking to ensure the Remuneration Policy is implemented with the
maximum for the 2022 LTIP. desired attributes of fairness, transparency, proportionality, and
Following evaluation of the formulaic outcomes for both the STI alignment to broader organisational culture and societal expectations.
and LTI plans, the Committee considered the results against the Pay Equity
underlying performance of the Group and the experience of our In 2024, for the fourth year in succession, we received an
shareholders. The Committee concluded that the outcomes were independent accreditation from Fair Pay Workplace for all markets
a fair reflection of performance delivered in what continues to be included in the scope of their review, demonstrating our
challenging and volatile market conditions and no adjustments were commitment to pay equity in order to create a more equitable and
required. In addition, share price fluctuations are reflected inclusive workplace.
throughout the Executive Directors’ remuneration in the vesting
Our pay equity review covers approximately 43,000 direct
and holding periods as well as individual shareholdings. The employees1 in more than 100 markets from a gender perspective
Committee also considered whether there were any potential
(all our direct employees), and approximately 17,000 employees in
windfall gains for the LTI award granted in March 2022 and
eight markets from an ethnicity perspective (approximately 40% of
concluded that an adjustment to the size of the awards was not
our global workforce).
warranted. More details are provided on page 230.
The Group results show that men and women are paid within 1%
Chief Financial Officer appointment
of each other, and ethnically diverse and non-ethnically diverse
The Board has appointed Soraya Benchikh to the role of Chief groups are paid within 1% of one another for doing the same work
Financial Officer and Executive Director. Soraya joined BAT on or work of equal value. This demonstrates that our pay practices
1 May 2024. Soraya's base salary on appointment was set at are founded on fair and consistent drivers of pay. Further
£800,000, a 5% reduction versus her predecessor's salary. Soraya's information about the Group’s approach to Pay Equality is
remuneration for 2024 is presented in the single figure table in this described in the Diversity and Inclusion Report (see www.bat.com/
report on page 228 and further detail of Soraya’s remuneration on investors-and-reporting/reporting/diversity-and-inclusion-report).
appointment was set out in the Annual Report and Form 20-F
Living Wage
2023 on page 186.
Living Wage is an ongoing area of focus for BAT. In 2024, for the
second year in succession, we received an independent
accreditation from the Fair Wage Network for all the markets
included in the scope of our living wage analysis. The assessment
has been conducted across our global business, covering
approximately 43,000 employees (all our direct employees) in more
than 100 markets. We will continue to monitor global living wage
references regularly to ensure that our fair and equitable principles
for wage setting are upheld.
Note:
1. Direct Employees' are permanent employees employed directly by the Group. Further
details on the definition is provided in our Diversity and Inclusion Report 2024.
214
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2025 salary changes Canadian settlement
In determining the 2025 salary increases for the Chief Executive In 2024, there was progress towards a settlement agreement
and Chief Financial Officer, the Remuneration Committee noted under the Proposed Plans in connection with ITCAN's tobacco-
that in the UK, salary increases for the majority of employees are related litigation in Canada (further details are available on page
expected to be around 4% on average. 328). In setting targets for 2025, the Remuneration Committee has
In addition, the Remuneration Committee also considered the carefully considered relevant factors known at this time with
underlying Group performance for the financial year and the regards to the Canadian settlement and the corresponding
individual contribution of the Executive Directors. accounting treatment in the context of STI and LTI target setting.
The Committee’s approach is fully described on pages 239 to 240
The Remuneration Committee also reviewed market data to
and further information will be disclosed in the Annual Report and
reference the competitive positioning of the Chief Executive's and
Form 20-F for the year ending 31 December 2025.
Chief Financial Officer's total remuneration in relation to our
revised International Pay Comparator Group and wider market. New Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The Remuneration Committee also reviewed the impact of salary The BAT Long-Term Incentive Plan 2016 approved by shareholders in
adjustments on total remuneration of the Executive Directors to 2016 will expire next year. As a result, we will be seeking shareholder
ensure the overall potential quantum remains reasonable. approval for a new long-term incentive plan, the British American
Tobacco p.l.c. Performance Share Plan at our forthcoming 2025 AGM.
Taking the above points into account, the Committee decided to
Further information is provided in the Notice of AGM.
approve a salary increase of 2.5% for the Chief Executive and 3.5%
for the Chief Financial Officer, which are below the average level of In relation to Committee composition, I was delighted to welcome
the wider UK workforce. Karen Guerra back to the Committee on 10 February 2025 and I
would like to thank Murray Kessler for his contributions to the
Looking Ahead to 2025
Committee over his tenure.
The Committee discussed the importance of ensuring performance
ranges are appropriately calibrated to the Group’s business model and I would like once again to thank our shareholders and wider
outlook and remain stretching for participants. stakeholders for the direct engagement and feedback during this past
year on both our remuneration policy and practices. I look forward to
We have carefully considered internal forecasts, external market
continuing this dialogue in 2025 and respectfully ask for your support
expectations for future growth, the sensitivities attached to target
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ranges and the current business environment in which the Group is
operating.
Kandy Anand
The Committee is confident that the targets remain suitably stretching
Chair, Remuneration Committee
and incentivising for participants, ensuring maximum payout only for
exceptional performance. Further details related to the 2025 PSP 12 February 2025
targets are provided on page 240.
We will review the grant price of the 2025 PSP award, taking into
account previous grant prices, and review both on grant and on
vesting whether there is or has been any potential for windfall gains.
The Committee retains discretion to determine whether the formulaic
outcome of the 2025 PSP at vesting is a fair reflection of underlying
business performance and consistent with the shareholder experience
over the performance period, and if not, to adjust the outcome
accordingly.
215
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Remuneration at a Glance
Remuneration at the Group is designed to reward performance in line with the delivery
of the Group's strategy, A Better Tomorrow™, and provides alignment with shareholders'
expectations and our Sustainability agenda. In 2024, we continued to accelerate our
transformation journey towards A Better Tomorrow™. The below summary highlights
how our business performance translated into the remuneration of our Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Officer.
Quality Growth Sustainable Future Dynamic Business
2024 Business performance highlights
+8.9% £251m +1.3% 101% +1.4%
New Categories Change in organic New Organic Group revenue Organic operating Adjusted organic profit from
organic revenue growth Categories contribution growth cash flow operations growth
conversion ratio
STI STI LTI LTI STI
Performance outcomes Shareholding as % of salary
(31 Dec 2024)
STI and LTI outcomes for 2024 are shown in the charts below. Chief Executive 482 %
Full details can be found on pages 229 and 230.
Chief Financial Officer 266 %
Short-Term Incentive 2024* Delivery: 50% in cash + Further details on page 231
and 50% in shares
Outcome as %
(0%) Threshold Maximum (100%)
of maximum
Group's volume share 78.6%
growth (10%) 476%
New Categories revenue
growth (15%)
Chief Executive (£'000)
New Categories contribution
(20%) £2,700
Chief Financial Officer
Adjusted profit from (£'000) 205% 228%
operations growth (25%)
£796
Adjusted cash generated
from operations (30%) 126%
277%
Long-Term Incentive 2022-2024**
140%
Outcome as %
(15%) Threshold Maximum (100%) Tadeu Marroco Soraya Benchikh
of maximum
Relative total shareholder 42.1%
return (20%) At risk – unvested subject to performance
Adjusted diluted EPS growth Unvested subject to continued employment
(current) (15%)
Chief Executive (£'000) Ordinary Shares
Adjusted diluted EPS growth
(constant) (15%) £1,474
2024 Shareholding requirement: 500% of
Group revenue growth l salary for the Chief Executive and 400% for
(15%) the Chief Financial Officer
New Categories revenue – Current shareholding includes: ordinary shares
growth (15%) owned outright and shares subject to continued
employment on a net-of-tax basis (estimated).
Operating cash flow – Shares "at risk" include unvested LTI awards
conversion ratio (20%) subject to performance on a net-of-tax basis.
2024 Remuneration (£'000)
Base salary Total Remuneration
Chief Executive £1,374 £5,964 Notes:
Chief Financial Officer £533 £4,781 * For the STI 2024 targets and performance have been set and assessed excluding
The above numbers are as reported in the Single Figure Table, page 228. the impact of the disposal of the Russian and Belarusian businesses from outcomes.
** In assessing performance results for the 2022 LTIP award against the targets set at
The majority of the Executive Directors' remuneration package is made up the start of the performance period, performance has been assessed by removing the
of variable at-risk pay, linked to stretching targets that align with our impact of the disposal of the Russian and Belarusian businesses from the 2023 and
strategy and shareholder value creation, and is largely delivered in shares. 2024 results. Performance in the year 2022 will remain as previously reported.
216
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Directors' Remuneration Policy
Introduction
This policy section of the Remuneration Report (the Policy Report) sets out a proposed new Remuneration Policy for the Executive
Directors and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee discussed the details of the Remuneration Policy over a number of meetings during the year, taking into
account the strategic priorities of the Group and evolving market practice. The Remuneration Committee Chair and the Chair of the
Board engaged with the Company’s largest shareholders and their representatives regarding the policy proposals. As referenced in the
Annual Statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the Committee believes the new Remuneration Policy has strong
alignment with the BAT strategy and the transformation agenda.
This new Remuneration Policy, which is intended to replace the current Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM,
is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the AGM on 16 April 2025 and, if approved, will come into effect from 17 April 2025. The new
Remuneration Policy is set out in full on the following pages with key changes from the current Remuneration Policy identified for
reference.
The Committee reserves the right to make minor changes to the Remuneration Policy, where required for regulatory, tax or
administrative reasons.
Principles of remuneration
The Committee’s remuneration principles are to:
–reward, as an overriding objective, the delivery of the Group’s long-term strategy in a manner which is simple, straightforward and
understandable and which is aligned with shareholders’ interests;
–structure a remuneration package that is appropriately positioned relative to the market and comprises core fixed elements and
performance-based variable elements;
–design the fixed elements of pay (comprising base salary, pension and other benefits) to recognise the skills and experience of our
Executive Directors and to ensure current and future market competitiveness in attracting talent;
–design the variable elements of pay (provided via two performance-based incentive schemes: a short-term incentive scheme delivered
through a combination of a cash element and a deferral element, and a long-term incentive scheme), to be both transparent and
stretching and to support, motivate and reward the successful delivery of the Group’s long-term strategy and growth for shareholders
on a sustainable basis;
–ensure that reputational, behavioural and other risks that can arise from target-based incentive plans are identified and mitigated;
–maintain an appropriate balance between fixed pay and the opportunity to earn performance-related remuneration with immediate
and deferred elements, such that the majority of the Executive Directors' total remuneration package is delivered in BAT shares;
–ensure that the performance-based elements form, at maximum opportunity, between 80% and 90% of the Executive Directors’ total
remuneration packages;
–ensure, through its annual review, that the Remuneration Policy is both rigorously applied and remains aligned with the Group’s
purpose, values and strategy and the need to promote the long-term success of the Group; and
–ensure that remuneration arrangements are transparent and promote effective engagement with shareholders and the workforce.
Summary of key changes
The background and explanation of the proposed key changes from the current remuneration policy are given in the Annual Statement from
the Chair of the Remuneration Committee starting on page 205 of this Remuneration Report. The key changes are summarised below:
Policy element Summary of changes
Short-Term Incentive (STI) –Performance measures and weightings: Underlying policy is unchanged, however alternative
measures and weightings have been selected for awards made in 2025 to align to strategy and
continued transformation of the business.
–Deferral: Introduced a reduced deferral level from 50% to 25% once the minimum shareholding
requirements have been met. As part of the review, the Committee has assessed the malus
and clawback provisions and is comfortable that they will remain fully enforceable following
this change.
–Maximum opportunity: Increased maximum opportunity for the Chief Financial Officer from
190% to 200% of salary. Chief Executive maximum opportunity to remain unchanged at 250%.
Long Term Incentive - –Performance measures and weightings: Underlying policy is unchanged, however alternative
Performance Share Plan (PSP) measures and weightings have been selected for awards made in 2025 to align to strategy and
continued transformation of the business.
–Maximum opportunity: Increase maximum opportunity from 500% to 600% for the Chief
Executive and from 400% to 450% for the Chief Financial Officer.
Shareholding requirements –Increase shareholding requirements from 500% to 600% for the Chief Executive and from
400% to 450% for the Chief Financial Officer to align with the maximum LTI opportunity levels.
217
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Policy
Continued
Executive Directors: Remuneration Policy Table
Base Salary
Purpose & link to strategy To attract and retain senior high-calibre talent to deliver the Group’s strategic plans and to offer
market-competitive levels of fixed remuneration to reflect an individual’s skills, experience and
role within the Group, as well as the scale and complexity of the business.
Operation and performance Base salary is normally paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year. Salaries are normally
measurement reviewed annually in February (with salary changes effective from April) or subject to an ad hoc
review on a significant change of responsibilities.
Salaries are reviewed taking into account factors including individual performance as well as
appropriate market data, including general UK pay trends and a relevant pay comparator group
taking into account the Company’s size and complexity and reflecting the talent marketplace
within which BAT operates.
Maximum opportunity Annual increases for Executive Directors’ base salaries in the normal course will generally be in
the range of the increases in the base pay of other UK-based employees in the Group. The
proposed increase to incentive quantum will also be accompanied by a cap on annual salary
increases for the Chief Executive, which would be held at or below the UK employee average for
the lifetime of the new policy.
The salary of a recently appointed Executive Director as he or she progresses in a role may
exceed the top of the range of the salary increases for UK-based employees where the
Committee considers it appropriate to reflect the accrual of experience. A significant change in
responsibilities or material change in role may be reflected in an above average increase in salary.
Benefits
Purpose & link to strategy To provide market-competitive benefits consistent with the role which:
–attract and retain senior high-calibre talent to deliver the Company’s strategic plans; and
–recognise that such talent is global in source and that the availability of certain benefits (e.g.
relocation, repatriation, taxation compliance advice) will from time to time be necessary to
avoid such factors being an inhibitor to accepting the role.
Operation and performance The Company currently offers the following contractual benefits to Executive Directors: a car or
measurement car allowance; the use of a car and driver for personal and business use; employment tax advice
(including in instances where multi-jurisdictional tax authorities are involved); tax equalisation
payments (where appropriate); private medical insurance, including general practitioner ‘walk-in’
medical services; personal life and accident insurance; and housing and education allowances or
similar arrangements as appropriate to family circumstances (anticipated to be provided for
Executive Directors who relocate internationally).
Other benefits may include the Executive Directors' and their partners’ attendance at hospitality
or similar functions, and the provision of services and benefits which may be treated as benefits
for tax purposes, such as the provision of home security and the reimbursement of expenses
incurred in connection with their duties.
Other benefits not identified above may be offered if, in the Committee’s view, these are
necessary in order to remain aligned with market practice.
Where necessary any benefits may be grossed up for taxes.
The Company provides Directors and Officers liability insurance (D&O) and an indemnity to
Directors to cover costs and liabilities incurred in the execution of their duties.
Maximum Opportunity The maximum potential values are based on market practice for individuals of this level of
seniority and as appropriate to an individual’s circumstances, with any tax on benefits paid by the
Company in addition.
The maximum annual value is based on the cost to the Company and is not pre-determined.
Pensions
Purpose & link to strategy To provide competitive post-retirement benefit arrangements which are aligned to the wider UK
workforce whilst also recognising the external environment in the context of attracting and
retaining senior high-calibre talent to deliver the Group’s long-term strategy.
218
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Executive Directors: Remuneration Policy Table continued
Operation and performance Defined contribution benefits
measurement Executive Directors are eligible to receive a pension benefit which is aligned with the wider UK
workforce. This is currently up to 15% of salary in the UK. The pension benefit can be provided as
a contribution into the British American Tobacco UK Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") (or a similar
defined contribution arrangement from time to time) or as a gross cash sum paid in lieu thereof.
The level of contribution in the Plan is restricted to take into account the annual allowance, and if
eligible, the Executive Director may elect to accumulate any balance in the Defined Contribution
Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme ("DC UURBS") or receive the balance as a
gross cash sum. The DC UURBS closed to new entrants on 31 March 2021.
The pension arrangements operate in accordance with the rules of the applicable scheme,
including in respect of any benefits payable in the event of death or on early retirement.
Maximum opportunity The maximum annual contribution in the defined contribution section of the Pension Plan is
currently up to 15% of base salary in alignment with the UK wider workforce. Excess benefits
(whether accrued in the DC UURBS or paid as a cash sum) are subject to this same limit.
Short-term Incentive
Purpose & link to strategy To incentivise the attainment of corporate targets aligned to the Group’s strategic objectives on
an annual basis, with a deferred element to ensure alignment with shareholders' interests.
To ensure, overall, a market-competitive package to attract and retain high calibre individuals to
deliver the Group’s long-term strategy.
Operation and performance The STI is normally awarded 50% in cash and 50% in shares through the Deferred Share Bonus
measurement Scheme (DSBS). Once the minimum shareholding requirements have been met further STI
awards will normally be awarded 75% in cash and 25% in shares through the DSBS.
The deferred shares normally vest after three years and attract additional dividend equivalent shares.
Cash payments are subject to clawback provisions, and the deferred shares element is subject
to robust malus and clawback provisions, as described on page 221.
The STI is assessed against a range of performance measures. The Committee determines
performance measures, weightings and targets annually each year. Performance measures
typically relate to financial delivery and measuring progress in our transformation, aligning with
the Company’s priorities and strategy delivery. Performance measures applicable to the 2025
awards can be found on page 239.
The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the incentive measures to ensure it reflects
the underlying performance of the business and the experience of shareholders over the
performance period and retains the ability to adjust any formulaic outcomes if considered
appropriate. Any such adjustments will be fully disclosed in the relevant Directors' Remuneration
Report, including in cases of identified poor individual performance.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive - Maximum 250% of salary; on-target 125% of salary.
Other Executive Directors - Maximum 200% of salary; on-target 100% of salary.
The payout at threshold is normally 0% for each performance measure.
Long-term Incentive ( Performance Share Plan)
Purpose & link to strategy To incentivise individuals to deliver the Group’s long-term strategy and promote the long-term
success of the Company, and facilitate the appointment and retention of senior high-calibre talent.
To put in place a combination of measures with appropriately stretching targets around the
long-term plan that provides a balance relevant to the Company’s business and market conditions
as well as providing alignment between Executive Directors’ and shareholders’ interests.
219
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Policy
Continued
Executive Directors: Remuneration Policy Table continued
Operation and performance PSP awards are annual awards over shares that vest and are released to participants only to the
measurement extent that:
–the performance condition is satisfied at the end of the three-year performance period; and
–an additional holding period of two years has been completed.
Dividend equivalents may be paid in respect of share awards to the extent that the performance
conditions have been achieved.
PSP awards may be delivered in any form provided under the PSP rules as approved by
shareholders. Awards are subject to robust malus and clawback provisions, as described on
page 221.
The Committee sets performance measures and targets for each PSP grant. Measures,
weightings and targets will be selected based on the strategic priorities for BAT at that time.
The performance measures typically include relative total shareholder return, financial and
transformation progress measures. Performance measures for the 2025 awards can be found
on page 240.
The Remuneration Committee will engage with shareholders in advance if it proposes significant
changes to the PSP performance measures.
The Remuneration Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the incentive measures to
ensure it reflects the underlying performance of the business and the experience of shareholders
over the performance period. The Committee retains the ability to adjust any formulaic
outcomes if considered appropriate. Any such adjustments will be fully disclosed in the relevant
Directors' Remuneration Report.
Maximum opportunity Maximum award of shares permitted is 600% of salary for the Executive Directors.
The maximum award for the Chief Executive is typically in line with this limit at 600% of salary
and typically below this limit for other Executive Directors, currently at 450% of salary.
The payout for threshold performance is 15% of maximum for each measure.
All-employee share schemes
Purpose & link to strategy Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Company’s all-employee share schemes, in
the same way as the wider workforce, which are designed to incentivise employees by giving
them an opportunity to build shareholdings in the Company.
Operation and performance The Company currently operates the following HMRC tax-advantaged all-employee share
measurement schemes: the Sharesave Scheme, a savings-related share option scheme, and the Share
Incentive Plan (SIP), which allows eligible employees to purchase shares in the Company (under
the Partnership Plan) and to receive an annual award of free shares under the Share Reward
Scheme (SRS) based on the Group’s performance in the previous financial year.
Maximum opportunity Executive Directors are subject to the same limits on participation as other employees, as defined
by the applicable statutory provisions from time to time. Further details about each scheme are
provided on page 338.
Shareholding Requirement (including post-employment)
Purpose & link to strategy To strengthen the alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and those of
shareholders by requiring Executive Directors to build up a high level of personal shareholding in
the Company.
To ensure long-term alignment through the operation of post-employment shareholding
requirements.
Operation and performance Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company:
measurement –during service as an Executive Director, equal to the value of the same multiple of salary at
which LTI awards are made to that Executive Director; and
–after ceasing service as an Executive Director during the period until the second anniversary of
cessation of employment with the Group, of a value equal to 100% of the shareholding
requirement that applied whilst an Executive Director or, if lower, such shares as are held at
the date of cessation. In order to monitor and enforce the above provisions, former Executive
Directors are required to hold their shares in a nominee account in respect of which a sale
restriction applies to shares held to comply with the requirements.
Those Executive Directors who do not meet the shareholding requirements may generally sell a
maximum of up to 50% of any shares vesting (after tax) until the threshold for the shareholding
requirements has been met.
A waiver of compliance with the shareholding requirements is permitted at the discretion of the
Remuneration Committee in circumstances which the Committee considers to be exceptional.
220
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Notes to the Policy table
Other Policy Provisions in Relation to Directors’ Pay
Flexibility, judgement and discretion
There are a number of specific areas in which the Committee may exercise discretion, including:
–to determine performance measures, weightings and targets annually for the STI and to set performance measures, weightings
and targets for each LTI grant based on the strategic priorities of BAT at that time.
–to alter performance conditions if events happen which cause the Committee to determine that the performance conditions
are no longer a fair measure of the Company's performance, or to take account of legal changes or to obtain or retain favourable
tax, regulatory or exchange control treatment or in the event that it considers it fair and reasonable to do so, provided that
the revised target is, in the opinion of the Committee, not materially less challenging than was intended in setting the
original condition.
–to adjust formulaic pay outcomes for STI and LTI if and to the extent that it considers this appropriate. This power to adjust the
outcomes is broad and includes adjusting the outcomes either positively or negatively, including reducing to zero. For example,
an adjustment might be made if the Remuneration Committee considers:
–the formulaic outcomes do not reflect the overall financial or non-financial performance of the Company or the participant over the
performance period;
–the LTI vesting percentage is not appropriate in the context of circumstances that were unexpected or unforeseen at award; or
–there is any other reason why an adjustment is appropriate.
–in connection with any termination of employment or change of control or similar event.
–to determine whether awards under the LTI are delivered as options or under any other form permitted under the PSP rules as
approved by shareholders, and in respect of operational matters not otherwise covered by this Policy, to operate the STI, DSBS
and LTI plans in accordance with their terms.
–to operate the malus and clawback provisions.
Malus and clawback
Amounts paid under the STI are subject to clawback provisions, and awards made under the DSBS and the PSP are subject to malus and
clawback provisions. Malus and clawback provisions apply to DSBS awards and the cash portion of the STI for the duration of three years
from the date of the award and to PSP awards for the duration of five years from the date of award. Malus and clawback may be applied
in circumstances including where:
–there has been a material misrepresentation in relation to the performance of any Group company, relevant business unit and/or the
participant;
–an erroneous calculation was made in assessing the extent to which an award vested or bonus was paid, which in either case resulted
in the value of the award or payment being more than it should have been;
–participant misconduct;
–participant caused a material loss for any Group company as a result of (a) reckless, negligent or wilful actions, or (b)
inappropriate behaviour or behaviour that is not aligned with the Group’s corporate values;
–participant contributed to serious reputational damage of any Group company or one of its business units; or
–there is an insolvency event or corporate failure.
Where the Committee determines that these provisions are to be applied, the number of shares subject to outstanding awards may be
reduced (malus) and/or the participant may be required to repay up to the excess value which was paid or vested (clawback). Clawback
may also be effected by the number of shares subject to outstanding awards being reduced and/or by a reduction in other cash or share-
based awards held by the participant.
The above provisions are supplemented by the additional malus and clawback policy which is compliant with the requirements of
the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) listing standards for NYSE-listed companies to adopt malus and clawback policies that
meet the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and the SEC’s final rules implementing clawback provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act
(i.e., cases in which there has been an accounting restatement due to material non-compliance with any financial reporting
requirement under the securities laws).
221
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Policy
Continued
Payments from previously agreed remuneration arrangements
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments where the terms were agreed prior to an individual being
appointed an Executive Director of the Company or prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy (including, for
the avoidance of doubt, pursuant to the current Remuneration Policy). This includes the achievement of the applicable performance
conditions for Executive Directors who are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of
the Remuneration Policy.
External Appointments
The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits that accrue to the Company and its Executive Directors who undertake non-
executive roles. Consequently, an Executive Director may, with the permission of the Board, undertake a single external appointment and
the Executive Director may retain the fees from such appointment.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors from that for other employees
The Remuneration Policy is structurally similar to remuneration for the majority of wider workforce, with consideration given to location,
seniority and responsibilities. A higher proportion of total remuneration is tied to variable pay for Executive Directors and members of
senior management, refer to “Remuneration in the context of the wider workforce” on page 232 for more details.
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy
The charts below illustrate the potential future value and composition of the Executive Directors’ total remuneration opportunities under
four performance scenarios (‘Minimum’, ‘On-target’, ‘Maximum’ and ‘Maximum +50% share price appreciation between award and vest
of the PSP’) for the first complete year in which the Remuneration Policy will apply. The total remuneration opportunity for Executive
Directors is strongly performance-based and weighted to the long term.
Remuneration outcomes for varying levels of performance
Chief Executive
(£m)
The ‘Minimum’ scenario shows fixed remuneration
Minimum 100% £1.8 only, i.e. salary, pension and benefits.
The 'On target' scenario shows fixed remuneration
On-target 38% 36% 26% £4.9 plus on target payout under the STI1 and PSP.
The 'Maximum' scenario shows fixed remuneration
plus maximum payout under STI1 and PSP.
Maximum 13% 26% 61% £13.9
For the ‘Maximum plus 50% share price
Maximum plus 50% appreciation’, all elements are the same as the
share price 10% 20% 47% 23% £18.2 ‘Maximum’ scenario, but assuming 50% share
appreciation price growth across the performance period for
Fixed remuneration STI PSP Share price growth PSP awards.
For simplicity, the charts exclude dividend accrual,
and exclude the effect of any share price
movement except in the ‘Maximum +50% share
price appreciation’ scenario.
Chief Financial Officer
(£m)
Assumptions and performance scenarios
Minimum 100% £1.0
Base Salary Salary effective from 1 April 2025
Pension Cash in lieu of pension benefit of up to 15% of salary
On-target 43% 34%23% £2.4
Benefits2 Illustrative, based on 2024 figure
Minimum On target3,4 Maximum
Maximum 16% 26% 58% £6.4
Chief STI Nil 125% 250%
Executive PSP Nil 90% 600%
Maximum plus 50%
share price 12% 20% 45% 23% £8.3 Chief STI Nil 100% 200%
appreciation Financial
Officer PSP Nil 68% 450%
Fixed remuneration STI PSP Share price growth
Notes:
1. STI value is inclusive of the annual Share Reward Scheme (SRS)
award (an all-employee share scheme) up to a maximum of £3,600
and an on target value of 50% of maximum.
2. Excluding one-off benefits related to relocation.
3. STI on target is 50% of maximum.
4. PSP on target is at threshold vesting of 15%.
222
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Approach to Remuneration of Directors on Recruitment
Principles –British American Tobacco seeks to appoint senior, high calibre managers. Many of its
In making an Executive Director competitors for talent are based outside the UK.
appointment (whether an internal –To offer a package (both fixed salary, benefits, pension and performance-related
promotion or external appointee) the remuneration) which is sufficiently competitive (but not excessively so) so that senior, high
Committee will follow these principles. calibre candidates can be appointed, and which is designed to promote the long-term
success of the Company.
–The Committee will consider the market, including the International Pay Comparator Group,
and by reference to other companies of equivalent size and complexity to ensure that it does
not overpay.
–Consideration will be given to relevant factors, such as the candidate’s skills, knowledge
and experience and his or her current package and current location in determining the
overall package.
–Internal pay relativities and the terms and conditions of employment of the new and existing
Executive Directors will be considered to ensure fairness between Executive Directors.
External appointment to role of –The remuneration package, including maximum incentive opportunities, will be set in line
Executive Director – additional with the Policy set out in the policy table.
considerations –In addition, to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, the Committee retains the discretion
to offer additional payments or awards to buy-out incentive awards, benefits and/or other
contractual arrangements, including in relation to the forfeiture of such amounts on leaving
a previous employer. The maximum value of any such payments or awards would normally
be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements. In determining any
such buy-out, the Committee will take account of relevant factors which may include the
form of any forfeited awards (e.g. cash or shares), the time horizons, and any performance
conditions attached.
–Where appropriate, any replacement award would be made subject to malus and
clawback provisions.
Relocation In the event that an internal or external candidate were required to relocate internationally to
take up the Executive Director position, the Committee may offer appropriate relocation
provisions. Examples of this support may include shipment of goods; temporary
accommodation; assistance to find accommodation; tax support services; immigration support,
education assistance and spouse or partner support. Inbound relocation and shipment expenses
are subject to clawback provisions. Where relevant, amounts will be grossed up for tax.
Such benefits would be set at an appropriate level by the Committee, taking into account the
circumstances, provisions applicable to the wider internationally mobile workforce, and typical
market practice.
Executive Directors’ service contracts and end of employment arrangements (including change of control provisions)
The following table describes the provisions of the service contracts of Tadeu Marroco and Soraya Benchikh and applicable plan rules. It
is currently anticipated that service contracts for newly-appointed Executive Directors will not contain terms differing materially from
these provisions (provided that other arrangements may be entered into in connection with the recruitment of Executive Directors, as
described in the ‘Approach to remuneration of Directors on recruitment’ section above).
The table below sets out the effective dates of the Executive Directors' service contracts.
Executive Director Effective date of current service contract
Tadeu Marroco 15 May 2023
Soraya Benchikh 1 May 2024
Copies may be inspected at the Company’s registered office.
223
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Policy
Continued
Provision
Notice period Employed on a permanent contract, terminable by either party on one year’s notice. The Company may require
the Executive Director to be on garden leave during all or any part of the period of notice (whether given by the
Executive Director or the Company).
Contractual terms The contracts include obligations which could give rise to, or impact upon, remuneration and/or payments for loss
of office.
The primary obligations under the contracts which may give rise to remuneration or payments for loss of office
are as follows:
–to terminate the contract only on the expiry of 12 months’ written notice or to make a payment in lieu of notice
in respect of all, or the unexpired part, of the 12 months’ notice calculated based on: (1) salary at then current
base pay; and (2) the cost to the Company of providing private medical expenses insurance and personal
accident insurance (or the Company may, at its option, continue those benefits for the unexpired period of the
notice). In determining the value of a payment in lieu of notice the Company shall not be required to reward
failure on the part of the Executive Director and shall have regard to corporate governance standards at the
termination date. The Company may, at its reasonable discretion, make the payment in lieu of notice in phased
monthly or quarterly instalments and may determine that it should be reduced in accordance with the duty on
the part of the Executive Director to mitigate their loss; and
–to continue to pay the Executive Director’s salary and contractual benefits during any garden leave period.
In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, the Executive Director may have statutory and/
or common law rights to certain additional payments depending on the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of STI The following provisions will normally apply:
and Deferred –In the event of death, disability, injury or ill health, and other circumstances at the Committee’s discretion, any
Bonus Scheme STI in the year of departure is pro-rated based on service and deferred awards under the DSBS will vest upon
(DSBS) awards termination of employment.
–Payments made during a notice period or after cessation may, at the discretion of the Committee, be made in
cash only.
–STI amount payable will be determined based on the assessment of the actual full-year performance and paid at
the normal time.
–In other circumstances (including resignation and summary dismissal), no STI award will be made and DSBS
awards will lapse unless the Committee, in its absolute discretion, decides otherwise.
Treatment of PSP PSP awards will be treated in accordance with the applicable plan rules. The following provisions will normally apply:
awards –In the event of disability, injury or ill health, and other circumstances at the Committee’s discretion outstanding
awards will continue to vest and will ordinarily be reduced pro-rata for time elapsed during the performance
period.
–Awards will remain subject to the same vesting period, performance conditions, holding period and malus and
clawback provisions, as if the Executive Director had remained in employment.
–The extent to which awards vest will be determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which
the performance conditions have been satisfied.
–In the event of death, the award will vest in full on the date of death.
–In other circumstances (including resignation and summary dismissal): unvested awards will lapse on cessation
of employment, unless the Committee, in its absolute discretion, decides otherwise.
All-employee Executive Directors are treated in accordance with the scheme rules, in the same manner as applies to
share schemes all employees.
Other The Company may make payment of legal fees and/or other professional advice fees incurred by an individual in
connection with their termination of employment, and/or fees for outplacement services. Payment may also be
made in relation to accrued but untaken holiday.
Reimbursement of reasonable relocation costs where an Executive Director (and, where relevant, his or her
family) had originally relocated to take up the appointment; this may include the shipment of personal goods and
winding-up his or her affairs in the UK and the incidental costs incurred in doing so.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive
Directors, potentially including (but not limited to) settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and/or
consultancy arrangements. These arrangements would only be entered into where the Committee believes that it
is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
224
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Terms of Appointment for the Chair of the Board and other Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chair of the Board, are appointed as officeholders, not employees. In any given year, the period of
appointment runs from the close of the Company’s last AGM to the close of the Company’s next AGM.
The Chair of the Board may terminate his or her appointment with one month’s written notice, and the Company may give a
compensation payment in lieu of all or part of such notice. The Chair may be removed by the Company prior to the expiry of his or her
term of appointment by three months’ written notice or a compensation payment in lieu of all or part of such notice.
A Non-Executive Director may terminate his or her appointment at any time in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
Alternatively, a Non-Executive Director’s appointment will terminate if: (1) the Board requests that he or she not offer himself or herself
for re-election at the next AGM; (2) the Non-Executive Director is not re-elected at the next AGM; (3) the Non-Executive Director is
required to vacate office for any reason pursuant to any of the provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association; or (4) the Non-
Executive Director is removed as Director or otherwise required to vacate office under any applicable law.
The Chair of the Board and other Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any discussion on their own respective remuneration.
Chair of the Board and Non-Executive Directors
Fees The Chair of the Board receives a single all-inclusive fee. Other Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee and
may also receive additional fees in respect of committee membership and/or chairmanship.
The Committee considers annually the fee payable to the Chair of the Board and the Board considers fees payable
to the other Non-Executive Directors. This process may take into account factors including the breadth and
demands of the relevant role as well as comparison with fees paid by the comparator group of companies used in
the base salary review of Executive Directors. The annual review does not necessarily result in a change to the fees.
The Company has the discretion to pay additional fees to the Chair of the Board and/or Non-Executive Directors
should the Company require significant additional time commitment in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances.
Fees may be paid in cash or a combination of cash and shares, with the proportion to be paid in shares in a year to
be disclosed in the relevant Directors' Remuneration Report.
It is anticipated that any future aggregate increase in fees for the Chair of the Board and other Non- Executive
Directors will generally be in the range of the increases in the base pay of UK-based employees in the Group.1
Benefits, travel The Chair of the Board and Non-Executive Directors may be reimbursed for the cost of travel, accommodation
and related and related expenses incurred in connection with their duties and are eligible to use general practitioner ‘walk-in’
expenses services. The Chair of the Board and Non-Executive Directors and their partners may attend hospitality or
similar functions.
Benefits for the Chair of the Board may also include: the use of a Company driver; private medical insurance and
personal accident insurance benefits; the provision of home and personal security; and assistance in relation to
personal tax matters.
If necessary, the Company will pay for independent professional advice in connection with the performance of
duties as Chair of the Board and Non-Executive Directors.
The Company provides D&O insurance and an indemnity to the Chair of the Board and Non-Executive Directors
to cover costs and liabilities incurred in the execution of their duties.
In instances where any benefits, reimbursements or expenses are classified by HMRC as a benefit to the Chair of
the Board and Non-Executive Directors, it is also the practice of the Company to pay any tax due on any such benefits.
Other There are no formal requirements or guidelines to hold shares in the Company. The Chair of the Board and Non-
Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes
or incentive plans, or be a member of any Group pension plan.
Note:
1. Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chair cannot currently exceed in aggregate an annual sum of £2,500,000 as authorised by shareholders with reference to the Company's
Articles of Association. Any Director who holds any other office in the Company (including the office of Chair of the Board), serves on any Committee of the Board, or performs services
that the Directors consider go beyond the ordinary duties of a Director may be paid such additional remuneration as the Directors may determine.
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chair of the Board, have letters of appointment which are signed annually upon re-election at the
AGM and are available for inspection at the AGM or at the Company's registered office. For further details on appointment and
reappointment of Non-Executive Directors, see the Governance section on pages 189 to 191.
Non-Executive Director recruitment
The remuneration package for new Non-Executive Directors is determined within the confines of the Policy table for Non-Executive
Directors fees, and subject to the Articles of Association. Non-Executive Directors are not offered variable remuneration or retention
awards. When determining the benefits for a new Chair of the Board, the individual circumstances of the future Chair will be taken into
account.
Non-Executive Director termination of office
No payments for loss of office will be made to Non-Executive Directors.
225
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Policy
Continued
Consideration of wider employee and other stakeholders views
Engaging with stakeholders on remuneration
Employees Shareholders
The Committee takes account of the pay and employment We actively engage with our shareholders on a range of topics
conditions of the broader workforce when setting the Policy for including executive remuneration to better understand their
Executive Directors. perspectives and solicit feedback. This information is carefully
The Company promotes and maintains regular and meaningful considered when shaping remuneration policy and when making
engagement with our employees across multiple channels and at decisions within our existing frameworks.
different levels in the organisation (Annual Your Voice engagement In 2024, our Chair of the Board and the Remuneration Committee,
survey, focus groups, Directors' market and site visits, works supported by senior managers, met with our major institutional
councils, and Chief Executive's ‘Let's Talk’ sessions) through which shareholders and representative bodies, including proxy voting
employees can engage on various business matters, including pay. agencies to review the proposed changes to our Directors'
The feedback from these channels is reviewed by the Board Remuneration Policy. This iterative process involved incorporating
(discussed on page 182 to 183). feedback and conducting follow-up meetings where necessary,
The Remuneration Committee considers workforce feedback and demonstrating our commitment to meaningful dialogue and
pay practices across the Group when designing and implementing responsiveness to shareholder views.
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, and reviews relevant reference During our engagements, the transparency and level of detail in
points and trends, which include internal data on employee our approach were highlighted as key strengths. A recurring theme
remuneration (for example, average salary increases applying in was the importance of translating this clarity into our disclosures,
the UK and other top markets). a priority we have aimed to reflect in this report.
During the Remuneration Policy review, pay and employment Shareholder engagement and input were instrumental in shaping
conditions of the wider employee population were taken into key decisions, including our proposed adjustments to the STI and
account by ensuring alignment with the same performance, PSP performance measures and weighting, and other policy
rewards and benefits principles for the Executive Directors. More aspects. The tables on pages 207 to 213 summarise the
information is provided in the "Differences in Remuneration Policy Committee’s proposals, the key points of feedback received, and
for Executive Directors from that for other employees" section on the changes made by the Committee taking into account the
page 222. feedback received.
We proactively communicate with employees to help them
develop a clear understanding of their remuneration and benefits
and provide financial literacy resources designed to equip
employees with the knowledge and tools to better manage their
compensation. These communications provide employees with
the context to understand pay for performance alignment and
broader pay structures, helping foster greater engagement on pay
topics, including on executive remuneration.
226
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Summary of the Current Remuneration Policy
The current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 28 April 2022. The full Directors’ Remuneration Policy is
set out in the 2021 Remuneration Report contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2021 (pages
152–157), which is available at www.bat.com.
Current Directors’ Remuneration Policy – Summary
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
Fixed Pay – Salary
Attracts and retains high-calibre individuals to deliver the Group's long-term
strategy. Salaries are reviewed annually, taking into account factors including
individual performance, experience and business performance, and reference
appropriate market data1 and the approach taken for the general UK
employee population.
Fixed Pay – Pensions and Benefits
Pension provides competitive post-retirement benefits arrangements in the
form of a Defined Contribution benefit equivalent to a maximum of up to 15% of
salary, aligned with the rate applicable to the wider UK workforce.
Market competitive benefits are provided which are consistent with the role.
Short-Term Incentive2
Incentivises the attainment of corporate targets aligned to the Group's strategic
objectives on an annual basis, with a deferred element to ensure alignment with
shareholders' interests. The Chief Executive's on-target opportunity is 125% of
salary and maximum is 250% of salary. The Chief Financial Officer's on-target 50% cash 50% shares deferred for 3 years
opportunity is 95% of salary and maximum is 190% of salary. Malus and clawback
provisions apply.
Long-Term Incentive2
A combination of stretching targets aligned with long-term strategy delivery that
provides a balance relevant to the Group's business and market conditions as
well as alignment between Executive Directors' and shareholders' interests.
Awards granted under the Group's LTIP - Performance Share Plan vest after
a 5-year extended vesting period from the grant date, and only to the extent
that the performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the 3-year
3-year performance period 2-year holding period
performance period, and employment continues for an additional 2-year period
from the third anniversary of the grant date. Annual maximum award of 500%
of salary for the Chief Executive and 400% of salary for the Chief Financial
Officer. Malus and clawback provisions apply.
Shareholding (including post-employment)
Strengthens the long-term alignment between the interests of Executive
Minimum shareholding requirement
Directors and shareholders.
Executive Directors are required to hold BAT shares equal to the value of 500%
of salary for the Chief Executive and 400% for the Chief Financial Officer during
their service, and post-employment are required to maintain the same level of
shareholding until the second anniversary of cessation of employment.
Notes:
1. International Pay Comparator group: Anheuser-Busch InBev, Accenture, Altria, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Coca-Cola, Colgate-Palmolive, Danone, Diageo, GlaxoSmithKline, Heineken, Imperial
Brands, Johnson & Johnson, Kraft Heinz, L'Oréal, LVMH, Microsoft, Mondelēz International, Nestlé, Nike, Novartis, Procter & Gamble, PepsiCo, Philip Morris International, Reckitt
Benckiser, Salesforce, Siemens and Vodafone.
2. Further details on the performance measures for the performance period ended 31 December 2024 can be found on pages 229 and 230.
Current Remuneration Policy and the Corporate mitigating, as far as possible, reputational and other risks arising
Governance Code from remuneration that are not proportionate to outcomes.
When setting the current Remuneration Policy, the Committee has Predictability and proportionality
considered the provision 40 disclosures from the UK Corporate There is a clear link between the operation of our short and long-
Governance Code, as summarised below. term incentive plan awards and the delivery of our strategy and long-
Clarity and simplicity term performance. Variable remuneration at the Company accounts
Our current Remuneration Policy provides an overall remuneration for between 80%-90% of an Executive Director’s total remuneration,
package that is transparent for our Executive Directors and shareholders ensuring that poor performance is not rewarded.
alike; its simple structure has a clear and straightforward link to the Alignment to culture
delivery of the Group’s long-term strategy. Principles driving fixed The Remuneration Committee has worked extensively to develop
remuneration (salary, benefits, pension) are closely aligned with the a policy that closely aligns the Executive Directors to the wider
wider workforce and variable remuneration (STI and LTI) rewards delivery workforce and rewards long-term sustainable performance. The
of financial and strategic objectives both in the short- and long-term. Remuneration Committee continually reviews the Remuneration
Risk Policy, taking into account any feedback received from engagement
The combination of performance target setting for the STI and LTI, with the wider workforce and shareholders, to ensure it is aligned to
the inclusion of provisions for discretionary adjustments and malus the Company’s purpose and values, and promotes the long-term
and clawback provisions ensure that we remunerate our Executive success of the Company. The current Remuneration Policy was
Directors in accordance with high standards of governance while approved at the 2022 AGM with 94.85% of votes in favour.
227
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
The below section of the Remuneration Report sets out the Executive Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2024.
Executive Director remuneration earned in the year ended 31 December 2024
Single figure of remuneration
Executive Directors
Tadeu Marroco Soraya Benchikh
£’000 2024 2023 2024 2023
Salary1 1,374 1,149 533 —
Pension 206 173 70 —
Taxable benefits2 206 243 411 —
Other emoluments3 4 2 2 —
Short-Term Incentives 2,700 1,650 796 —
Long-Term Incentives4,5 1,474 1,350 — —
Incentives buyout6 — — 2,969 —
Total Remuneration 5,964 4,567 4,781 —
Total Fixed Pay 1,786 1,565 1,014 —
Total Variable Pay7 4,178 3,002 3,767 —
Notes:
1. Tadeu Marroco's 2023 salary figure reflects the increases applied during the year, i.e. it was £803,400 per annum between 1 January and 31 March, £843,600 per annum between 1 April
and 14 May and £1,343,700 per annum between 15 May and 31 December 2023. Soraya Benchikh's 2024 salary was pro-rated from her start date with BAT on 1 May 2024.
2. Soraya Benchikh’s 2024 taxable benefits include standard benefits with a total sum of £76,829, which equate to circa 14% of salary, and relocation payments with a total sum of
£237,736 which cover schooling and housing support as well as £95,940 (gross) as a reimbursement for relocation benefits, which she was required to repay to her previous employer
as disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023, on page 186.
3. The amounts included as Other emoluments relate to the all-employee share schemes: (1) Share Reward Scheme representing the value of ordinary shares awarded in 2024 in line with
the scheme rules, and the (2) Sharesave Scheme representing the face value of the discount on options exercised during the year, if applicable.
4. The 2022 LTI award is due to vest, by reference to performance on 25 March 2025, based on completion of the three-year performance period on 31 December 2024. The value shown
is based on the average share price for the three-month period ended 31 December 2024 of 2,818p and includes accumulated notional dividends. None of the value of the award is
attributable to share price appreciation. The actual value of shares to vest will be the value on 25 March 2027, when the award will fully vest after the expiry of the additional two-year
extended vesting period.
5. LTIP values shown for 2023 have been restated to reflect the actual closing BAT share price of 2,404p on the date the awards were adjusted for performance and include
accumulated dividends.
6. On joining BAT, Soraya Benchikh received a cash payment of £1,171,471 as compensation for awards forfeited with her previous employer which were due to be paid or vest in 2024
soon after her joining date, shares worth £247,612 and restricted shares worth £1,549,770 (as further detailed on page 231).
7. No malus or clawback provisions were applied.
The following sections provide further detail on the figures in the above table, including the underlying calculations and assumptions
and the Committee’s performance assessment for variable remuneration.
Salary
Salaries are normally reviewed annually in February with salary changes effective from April. Tadeu Marroco's salary was increased by
3% (£1,343,700 to £1,384,000) in April 2024. The increase is below the average level of the wider UK workforce (6%). Soraya Benchikh
joined BAT as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 May 2024. Soraya Benchikh's base salary on appointment was set at £800,000 per
annum, a 5% reduction versus her predecessor's salary as at April 2023 (£843,600 per annum).
Pension
The pension values shown in the table represent company contributions of up to 15% of
an annual base salary to the Defined Contribution arrangements in line with the Employer pension
£'000 contributions
contribution level for the wider UK workforce. No excess retirement benefits have been
paid to, or receivable by, the Executive Directors in 2024 and neither was entitled to Tadeu Marroco £206
defined benefits pension arrangements. Soraya Benchikh £70
Benefits
The table below summarises the benefits provided to the Executive Directors in 2024. Where relevant, the costs include VAT and a
gross-up for tax.
Car or car Health Tax Company Relocation
£'000 allowance insurance advice driver Security1 benefits Other Total Benefits
Tadeu
Marroco2,3 £17 £16 £67 £32 £8 — £66 £206
Soraya
Benchikh2,4 £13 £21 £23 £17 — £334 £3 £411
Notes:
1. Security costs relate to annual maintenance and monitoring of personal and home security systems.
2. In addition to taxable benefits, other non-taxable benefits were provided to Executive Directors including Life and Accident Insurance.
3. Other benefits for Tadeu Marroco include expenses relating to attendance at company-sponsored events which are treated by HMRC as taxable benefit in the United Kingdom.
The amounts include tax gross-up, where relevant.
4. Soraya Benchikh joined the Board on 1 May 2024, and as such the figures shown are for the part of the year during which she served on the Board. In line with her appointment terms,
Soraya Benchikh received housing (£181,132 gross) and schooling (£56,604 gross) payments in relation to 2024. The housing and schooling support will be provided for three years.
Additionally, she received a one-off payment of £95,940 (gross) as a reimbursement for relocation benefits, which she was required to repay to her previous employer, as disclosed in the
Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023, on page 186.
228
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Short-Term Incentive outcomes for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
In 2024, our performance was focused on supporting delivery against our three strategic pillars, with New Categories being a greater
driver of Group performance, delivering strong alignment with our corporate purpose to build A Better TomorrowTM.
New Category performance measures directly support our strategic aim to Build a Smokeless World, reducing the health impact of
our business and delivering sustainable growth through encouraging more consumers to transition to reduced-risk*† products.
Tobacco Harm Reduction is a key component of our Sustainability strategy and was identified in BAT’s 2023 Double Materiality
Assessment (page 71) as having the greatest outward impact on society and the environment, the greatest inward impact on BAT, and
the greatest financial materiality. New Categories revenue growth and New Categories contribution measures provide a direct link
between BAT's strategy, our Sustainability agenda and pay outcomes under the STI (and under the LTI for 2022 awards onwards).
Group volume share growth Group volume share is based on duty-paid cigarettes and HP consumables. The Group’s share
(10%) of top markets increased above the maximum target for this metric in 2024, resulting in maximum
outcome for this performance measure.
New Categories revenue New Categories revenue on an organic basis increased by 8.9% to £3,551 million in revenue, resulting
growth (15%) (at constant rates) in no payout as threshold performance for this performance measure was not achieved.
New Categories contribution Measures year-on-year improvement (at constant rates) in organic New Categories Contribution in
(20%) line with the Group’s original break-even expectation by 2025. In 2024, we have delivered an increase
in New Categories contribution of £251 million (on an organic basis), resulting in a maximum
outcome for this performance measure. We have outperformed the 2024 targets for this measure,
which were set in relation to the original 2025 ambition, enabling the Group to accelerate progress
early in this critical area of our business.
Adjusted profit from operations Adjusted profit from operation increased by 1.4% to £12,439 million, resulting in an 18.6% outcome
growth (25%) (on an organic out of a 25% maximum for this performance measure.
basis, at constant rates)
Adjusted cash generated Cash delivery continued to be strong, realising £7,955 million of adjusted organic cash generated from
from operations (30%) operations (at constant rates), resulting in a maximum outcome for this performance measure.
The chart below illustrates STI performance compared to the targets.
STI performance measures, weightings and outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2024
Measure1,2 Weighting Threshold (0%) Maximum (100%) Result Outcome
(max)
Group's volume Year on year % growth of Group share
share growth3 of top markets4, including HP 10% 0% 6% 10 bps 10% (10%)
Year on year improvement % in organic
New Categories
revenue from Vapour, HP and Modern 15% 10% 20% +8.9% 0% (15%)
revenue growth
Oral at constant rates
New Categories Year on year improvement in organic 20% 50m 150m £251m 20% (20%)
contribution New Categories contribution
Adjusted profit from Year on year % growth at constant rates 25% 0.25% 2% +1.4% 18.6% (25%)
operations growth of exchange (on an organic basis)
Adjusted cash
Annual adjusted organic cash generated
generated from 30% £7.2bn £7.6bn £7.96bn 30% (30%)
from operations (at constant rates)
operations
Total outcome as % of maximum 78.6% (100%)
Notes:
1. For the STI, 2024 targets and performance have been set and assessed excluding the impact of the disposal of the Russian and Belarusian businesses.
2. Non-GAAP measures: Organic New Categories revenue, Organic New Categories contribution, adjusted organic profit from operations and adjusted organic cash generated from
operations are non-GAAP measures used by the Remuneration Committee to assess performance. Please refer to pages 395 to 410 for definitions of these measures and a
reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable IFRS measure where applicable.
3. Group volume share is presented as a rounding movement to the nearest 10 bps. Payout is based upon the actual performance of +12 bps in 2024.
4. Group share of top markets includes HP performance for all major markets (Japan, South Korea, Italy, Poland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Romania).
Following evaluation of the formulaic outcomes of the STI, the Committee considered the results against the underlying performance of
the Group and concluded that the outcomes were a fair reflection of performance delivered in what continues to be challenging and
volatile market conditions and no adjustments were required.
Under the Remuneration Policy, 50% of the annual STI will be delivered as an award of BAT shares under DSBS which will be deferred for
a three-year period and will be released in March 2028. The 2024 STI outcome for the Executive Directors is as follows:
STI outcome for the year ended 31 December 2024
Maximum
Base salary for opportunity as % STI outcome STI award 50% delivered 50% deferred
2024 (£'000) of base salary (out of 100%) achieved,(£’000)1 in cash in shares
Tadeu Marroco £1,374 x 250% x 78.6% = £2,700 £1,350 £1,350
Soraya Benchikh2 £533 x 190% x 78.6% = £796 £398 £398
Notes:
1. Malus and clawback provisions apply. No further performance conditions apply.
2. Soraya Benchikh's 2024 STI is pro-rated from the date of her appointment (1 May 2024).
229
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
Long-Term Incentive 2022 – 2024
The LTI is designed to align participants with shareholders through making awards which are subject to stretching performance
conditions. The measures below were set under the terms of our 2022 Directors' Remuneration Policy. In assessing performance
results for the 2022 LTIP award against the targets set at the start of the performance period, performance has been assessed on an
organic basis for the 2023 and 2024 results by removing the impact of the disposal of the Russian and Belarusian businesses.
Performance in 2022 will remain as previously reported. This approach is aligned with the 2021 LTIP and provides a fair, balanced, and
understandable measurement of the LTI outcomes, by removing material one-off events, to ensure comparability period to period. The
performance results were assessed over the three-year period from 2022 - 2024 as follows:
Total shareholder return BAT TSR ranked 5th amongst our TSR peers resulting in 17.6% vesting for this measure.
(TSR) (20%)
Adjusted diluted earnings EPS is measured at current and constant rates of exchange (equally weighted). The three-year EPS
per share (EPS) (30%) compound annual growth rate (CAGR) was 4.4% and 4.9% at current and constant rates, respectively,
resulting in 0% vesting for this measure.
Group revenue growth (15%) The three-year Group revenue CAGR was 2.2% at constant rates of exchange, resulting in 0% vesting
for this measure.
New Categories revenue The three-year Group revenue CAGR was 21.8% at constant rates of exchange, resulting in 4.5%
growth (15%) vesting for this measure.
Operating cash flow We have continued to demonstrate the ongoing strength of the Group in turning operating
conversion ratio (20%) performance into cash, resulting in a 100.6% operating cash flow conversion ratio at current rates of
exchange over the three years, resulting in full vesting for this measure.
The chart below illustrates performance compared to the targets.
LTI performance measures, weightings and results for year ended 31 December 2024
Measure1 Weighting Threshold (15%) Maximum Result Outcome
(100%)
Relative TSR2 Relative to a peer group of international 20% Median UQ 5th 17.6% (20%)
FMCG companies
EPS growth at current Compound annual growth in adjusted
rates of exchange diluted EPS measured at current rates 15% 5% 10% 4.4% 0% (15%)
of exchange
EPS growth at constant Compound annual growth in adjusted
rates of exchange diluted EPS measured at constant rates 15% 5% 10% 4.9% 0% (15%)
of exchange
Group revenue growth Compound annual growth measured 15% 3% 5% 2.2% 0% (15%)
at constant rates of exchange
Compound annual New Categories
New Categories
growth measured at constant rates of 15% 20% 30% 21.8% 4.5% (15%)
revenue growth
exchange
Operating cash flow Ratio over the performance period
20% 85% 95% 100.6% 20% (20%)
conversion ratio at current rates of exchange
Total vesting as % of maximum 42.1% (100%)
Notes:
1. N on-GAAP measures: Adjusted diluted EPS (at current and constant rates of exchange) and operating cash flow conversion ratio are non-GAAP measures used by the Remuneration
Committee to assess performance of the 2022-2024 LTI. Please refer to pages 395 to 410 for definitions of these measures and a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly
comparable IFRS measure where applicable. In assessing performance results for the 2022 LTI award against the targets set at the start of the performance period, performance has
been assessed by removing the impact of the disposal of the Russian and Belarusian businesses from the 2023 and 2024 results. Performance in the year 2022 will remain as previously
reported.
2. R elative TSR: peer group constituents for the 2022-2024 LTIP were: Altria Group, Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Coca-Cola, Diageo, Heineken, Imperial Brands, Japan Tobacco,
PepsiCo, Pernod Ricard, Philip Morris International, Procter & Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, and Unilever.
Following evaluation of the formulaic outcomes for the LTI, the Committee considered the results against the underlying performance
of the Group and concluded that the outcomes were a fair reflection of performance delivered in what continues to be challenging and
volatile market conditions and no adjustments were required on this basis. In addition, the Committee has reviewed the grant price of
the 2022 LTIP (3,218p), as well as the share price movement over the 2022 to 2024 performance period, taking into account the BAT
share price on 31 December 2024 of 2,880p and was satisfied that no windfall gains have occurred and that no adjustment is required
to the award.
The Committee noted that the value of shares reflects the share price changes that all shareholders experience and that the value of
the 2022 award is at this stage indicative. Shares will not be released to the Chief Executive until after the two-year additional extended
vesting period which will end on 25 March 2027.
230
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2022-2024 LTIP outcome
Impact of share
Number of shares Dividend equivalent Total value to vest price change
Shares awarded Vesting % to vest £'0001 £’0002 £'0003
Tadeu Marroco 99,863 42.1% 42,042 £290 £1,474 -£168
Notes:
1. Value of the dividend equivalents accrued on the proportion of the award that is due to vest only. Dividend equivalents will be delivered as shares following the expiry of the two-year
extended vesting period on 25 March 2027.
2. The value of ordinary shares to vest is calculated using the average share price for the three-month period ended 31 December 2024 of 2,818p. The actual value of shares to vest will be
the value on 25 March 2027, when the award fully vests and is released to the Chief Executive.
3. None of the value of the award is attributable to share price appreciation and no discretion has been exercised as a result of share price appreciation or depreciation.
The below table details the shares awarded under the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Scheme (DSBS) during the 2024 financial year.
Details in relation to scheme interests granted during the year ended 31 December 2024
Market price
Shares at award Face value Performance Date from which
Plan Date of award awarded1 (pence)2 £’000 period3 shares will be released
Tadeu Marroco LTIP 20 Mar 2024 281,816 2,384 6,718 2024-2026 20 Mar 2029
DSBS4 20 Mar 2024 34,597 2,384 825 n/a 20 Mar 2027
Soraya Benchikh LTIP5 03 Sep 2024 119,313 2,384 2,844 2024-2026 03 Sep 2029
DSBS4 - - - - - -
Notes:
1. Shares awarded represent potential maximum opportunity.
2. The market price at award is the price used to determine the number of ordinary shares subject to the awards, which is calculated in the ordinary course as the average of the closing
mid-market price of an ordinary share over the three dealing days preceding the date of grant. An award price of 2,384 pence per share was used for the LTI award granted to Soraya
Benchikh, consistent with the award price used for the LTI award granted to the Chief Executive Officer on 20 March 2024.
3. The performance period for the LTI award is from 1 January 2024 - 31 December 2026. Performance conditions can be found on page 243. The proportion of the award that will vest for
achieving threshold performance is 15% of maximum opportunity and 100% of award will vest at maximum.
4. DSBS awards relate to the 2023 performance as disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023.
5. Soraya Benchikh's LTI award value is equivalent to a pro rata proportion of 400% of her annual salary with the proportion being calculated from her appointment date (1 May 2024) to
31 December 2026.
The below table details the shares and share awards granted to Soraya Benchikh on her appointment on 1 May 2024 representing
replacement awards which cover long-term incentives that were lost by Ms Benchikh from her previous employer on joining BAT. In line
with the Policy, the value of the replacement awards was based on an expected value (at a discount to face value where appropriate,
taking into account forecast vesting) of the awards being given up. Further details with regards to Ms Benchikh remuneration on
appointment can be found in the Annual report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023, on page 186.
Details in relation to scheme interests granted during the year ended 31 December 2024
Date from which
Market price Face value shares were /will be
Date of award Shares awarded at award (pence)1 £’000 released
Ordinary shares 1 May 2024 10,532 2,351 248 1 May 2024
Soraya Benchikh Restricted Share 1 May 2024 23,368 2,351 549 30 Sep 2025
Award 1 May 2024 42,550 2,351 1,000 30 Sep 2026
Note:
1. The market price at award is the price used to determine the number of ordinary shares subject to the awards, which is the closing mid-market price of an ordinary share on 30 April 2024.
Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements
Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a high level of personal shareholding to ensure a continuing alignment of interests with
shareholders. Executive Directors are required to hold BAT shares equal to the value of 500% of salary for the Chief Executive and 400%
for the Chief Financial Officer during their service, and post-employment are required to maintain the same level of shareholding until the
second anniversary of cessation of employment, with a sale restriction mechanism in place for this period.
If, at any time, an Executive Director does not meet the requirements of the shareholding guidelines, the individual may, generally, only
sell a maximum of up to 50% of any ordinary shares vesting (after tax) under the Company share plans until the threshold required under
the shareholding guidelines has been met. Waiver of compliance with guidelines is permitted with the approval of the Remuneration
Committee in circumstances where a restriction on a requested share sale could cause undue hardship. No such applications were
received from the Executive Directors during 2024.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to purchase shares in the Company on the open market to build up a shareholding in the Company
during the term of their appointment.
231
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
Executive Directors’ shareholding as at the year ended 31 December 2024
Value of eligible
No. of eligible ordinary shares Actual Shareholding
ordinary shares held at percentage (%) requirements Compliance with
held at 31 Dec 20242 of base salary at (% of base salary shareholding
31 Dec 20241 £'000 31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2024) requirement
Tadeu Marroco3 231,641 6,671 482% 500% No
Soraya Benchikh4 73,904 2,128 266% 400% No
Notes:
1. Eligibility of shares: (a) ordinary shares owned outright; (b) unvested ordinary shares under the DSBS, which represent deferral of earned bonus, are eligible and count towards the
requirement on a net-of-tax basis; (c) unvested ordinary shares under the LTI plan are not eligible and do not count towards the requirement during the performance period, but the
estimated notional net number of ordinary shares held during the LTI plan Extended Vesting Period are eligible and will count towards the requirement; (d) unvested ordinary shares
granted as a buy-out award on recruitment are eligible to count towards the requirement on a net-of-tax basis; and (e) ordinary shares held in trust under the all-employee share plan
are not eligible and do not count towards the shareholding requirement.
2. Value of ordinary shares shown above: this is based on the closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2024 of 2,880p.
3. Tadeu Marroco does not yet meet the shareholding requirement as a result of the increase in the requirement following his appointment as the Chief Executive on 15 May 2023. As such,
Mr Marroco may only sell a maximum of up to 50% of any ordinary shares vesting (after tax) under the Company share plans until he has met the threshold shareholding requirement
unless a waiver is granted by the Committee.
4. Soraya Benchikh does not yet meet the shareholding requirement as a result of her appointment as the Chief Financial Officer on 1 May 2024. As such, Ms Benchikh may only sell a
maximum of up to 50% of any ordinary shares vesting (after tax) under the Company share plans until she has met the threshold shareholding requirement unless a waiver is granted by
the Committee.
Remuneration in the context of the wider workforce
The Group’s remuneration policies and practices are founded on a high degree of alignment and consistency across the organisation.
Accordingly, remuneration for senior management is determined considering the remuneration principles that apply to the Executive
Directors, and similar principles also form the basis of the remuneration arrangements for the wider workforce.
The reward strategy for all employees is built around and designed to deliver the following objectives:
–Attract, retain and engage a diverse talent pool for competitive advantage
–Offer a reward that is externally competitive and internally equitable as well as being commercially sustainable
–Alignment with short-term and long-term shareholder interests
The key difference between Executive Directors’ remuneration and the wider employee population is the increased emphasis on long-
term performance in respect of Executive Directors, with a greater percentage of their total remuneration being performance-related
and delivered in BAT shares. This includes an additional two-year extended vesting period on LTI, and post-employment shareholding
requirements which do not apply to other employees.
The following table summarises the remuneration structure for the wider workforce.
232
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Element Wider workforce remuneration
Salary –Salary ranges across all grades are set by reference to external market data. Individual positioning
within the set salary ranges will depend on level of experience, responsibility and individual performance.
–A globally consistent pay comparator group, derived from the International Pay Comparator Group used by the
Remuneration Committee for executive pay benchmarking, is utilised across all levels of the organisation for pay
benchmarking purposes, with an appropriate level of flexibility provided to end markets.
Pension & –Retirement benefits and other benefit arrangements are provided to employees based on and to reflect local
Benefits market practice.
–Company pension contribution rates for Executive Directors and the wider UK workforce are aligned.
Short-Term –Our International Executive Incentive Scheme (IEIS) is operated consistently across the organisation and has more
Incentive than 1,640 employees participating. It is designed to reward employees for the delivery of financial, strategic and
operational targets.
–The IEIS is globally aligned for all managers in senior management roles, including Executive Directors, and for the
most senior managers, a portion of any award receivable is deferred in BAT shares for three years and the
remaining portion is delivered in cash. Both cash and deferred share awards are subject to malus and clawback.
Approximately 1,330 employees globally participate in the DSBS.
–Corporate annual bonus plans are in operation for employees in corporate functions designed to mirror
the basic construct of the IEIS and with performance metrics which align with the IEIS. Approximately 17,240
employees globally participate in the corporate annual bonus plans.
–Functional incentive schemes are in operation in non-corporate functions with functional performance metrics
incorporated to provide line of sight for participants.
Long-Term –The Group operates two globally aligned discretionary LTI plans designed to reward and retain our senior talent
Incentives while incentivising long-term business results and shareholder value creation, aligning interests of our senior
leaders with those of shareholders.
–Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are granted to the Group's most senior leaders (circa 160), including the
Management Board, which are subject to the same performance measures and three-year performance period as
for the Executive Directors. Executive Directors' awards are also subject to the additional 2-year holding period.
–Restricted Share Plan (RSP) awards are granted to circa 1,860 senior leaders globally and are subject to continuous
employment conditions during the three-year vesting period. The Executive Directors do not participate in the RSP.
–Discretionary share awards are subject to malus and clawback for all participants.
All-employee –Our all-employee share schemes are key to fostering a culture of ownership amongst our employees. In the UK,
share all employees (circa 2,450) are eligible to participate in the Company's all-employee share schemes, the
schemes Partnership Share Scheme and the Share Reward Scheme under our UK Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave
Scheme. Similar plans are also offered in Germany and Belgium.
Process for setting Executive Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee considers the budgeted salary increases for the UK-based employee population, the guidance given to
managers on the range of salary increases and other remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for all UK-based
employees when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors.
It is expected that salary reviews for the Executive Directors will be in line with the approach taken for the general UK employee
population, except in exceptional circumstances, such as where a recently appointed Executive Director’s salary is increased to reflect
his or her growth in the role over time or where significant additional responsibilities are added to the role.
As a key principle, management provides the Remuneration Committee with visibility of the potential impact of proposed changes to
the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy on the wider employee population.
233
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
Pay Equality at a glance 100+
Our Pay Equality Reporting aims to support the Group's commitment to gender
balance, diversity, and inclusion, aligning with our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) and
Sustainability goals. We are committed to fostering an equitable and thriving
Markets in scope
workplace. In 2024, we continued our Pay Equity journey, successfully maintaining our
independent accreditation from Fair Pay Workplace (FPW) and upholding our global
scope for gender analysis, covering over 100 markets and all our direct employees.
Furthermore, we’ve expanded our ethnicity analysis to include approximately 17,000 c.43,000
employees across eight locations, representing around 40% of our global workforce.
The consolidated results from our pay equity assessments confirm our commitment to
pay fairness: All direct employees
–Women and men are paid within 1% of one another for doing the same work or work
of equal value; and
–ethnically diverse groups and non-ethnically diverse groups are paid within 1% of one
another for doing the same work or work of equal value.
+ For more information about Diversity & Inclusion at BAT
please see our D&I Report at bat.com/investors-and-
reporting/reporting/diversity-and-inclusion-report
Supporting our employees
Wellbeing
We remain committed to supporting our colleagues’ wellbeing. In May 2024, we introduced our Global Benefits & Wellbeing guidelines
and the LiveWell framework, providing a global structure with flexibility for local needs. We have launched comprehensive benchmarking
reviews across our key markets to optimize our benefits portfolio, enhance Sustainability, and elevate the overall employee experience.
By 2026, LiveWell will be fully implemented in all top markets, creating a consistent and inclusive approach to employee benefits.
Targeted interventions
In response to ongoing macro-economic challenges, we have taken targeted actions to support employees recognising sustainable,
long-term performance in a commercially relevant and equitable way, whilst supporting the diverse needs of our employees. In 2024,
these measures included:
–Market-specific interventions – periodic salary reviews and inflationary allowances to mitigate economic pressures.
–Salary budget allocation – prioritising towards those most impacted by the external factors.
–Off-cycle salary reviews – enhancing competitiveness where needed.
Living Wage
In times of economic volatility and continuous cost of living pressures around the world, the Group remains committed to paying all our
direct employees at least the applicable living wage1.
In 2024, for the second year in succession, we received an independent accreditation from the Fair Wage Network for all the markets
included in the scope of our living wage analysis. The assessment has been conducted across our global business, covering approximately
43,000 employees (all our direct employees) in more than 100 markets. We will continue to monitor global living wage references regularly
to ensure that our fair and equitable principles for wage setting are upheld.
Note:
1. Our definition of a 'living wage' is aligned with the UN Global Compact definition: "living wage is the local remuneration received for a standard work week that enables workers and their
families to meet their basic needs".
234
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Employee listening framework: The views of our workforce are a key
Workforce engagement
In 2024, we strengthened our approach to consideration for the Remuneration
employee engagement with the launch of Committee when reviewing the reward
The Board keeps up to date with the our employee listening framework. This priorities of the organisation.
current views of our wider workforce framework facilitates more frequent There continues to be an ongoing dialogue
and provides the workforce with opportunities for employees to share their with employees, through a variety of
information, including on how feedback. The framework includes our channels, about the Group’s pay practices.
executive pay and the pay of the wider global Your Voice Engagement survey as an Through share ownership as a result of our
workforce are aligned, through a annual core index, complemented by a all-employee share schemes, our
combination of engagement methods suite of tools such as topical surveys that employees are invited to vote on the
across multiple channels at different can address a variety of subjects, including Directors' Remuneration Policy and Report
levels of our organisation. compensation. As part of this enhanced at our Annual General Meeting in the same
approach, the Board reviews an annual way as our shareholders.
A robust framework of well- summary of the feedback received
Information about how our Board engages
established engagement methods is through the framework, with outcomes
with our workforce is set out on page 182
in place, spanning multiple channels and actions provided back to employees
to 183. The Board also receives updates
and organisational levels: across the Group.
from management on feedback received
Direct engagement channels: during the year where relevant to
Comprise Directors’ market and site visits, remuneration matters considered by the
Employee listening framework including participation in town hall and Remuneration Committee and takes
Q&A sessions; the Executive Directors' feedback into account as applicable in
Chief Executive's ‘Let's Talk’ live programme of regional and market visits to determining executive remuneration. The
Q&A forum connect with local employees; our Chief Remuneration Committee is regularly
Executive's 'Let's Talk' live Q&A forum updated on the pay principles and
Global, Functional and Regional
series; and live webcasts presented by our practices in operation across the Group
webcasts and town hall sessions Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and considers them in relation to the
Global Leadership Meeting (GLM) to talk about our performance, results, implementation of the Directors’
strategic objectives, business outlook and Remuneration Policy, and in ensuring there
Directors' market and site visits embedding our culture, including Q&A. is an appropriate degree of alignment
These engagement channels have also throughout the Group. In 2024, the
Works Councils and European offered the opportunity of a two-way Remuneration Committee considered
Employee Council meetings transparent dialogue where employees employee feedback alongside the Group’s
Speak Up channels have raised compensation related topics broader pay principles and practices to
with the Directors. inform the development of the proposed
Additional engagement channels: revised Directors’ Remuneration Policy,
Directors are kept informed of the views to be presented to shareholders at the
and perspectives of our people arising from 2025 AGM.
engagement at different levels of the
organisation (for example, town halls,
employee focus groups, works councils,
global leadership meeting, and regional,
function and local webcasts), through
reports from the Chief People Officer,
and from the Group Head of Business
Integrity & Compliance in relation to
Speak Up channels.
235
Other Information Relating to Executive Directors' Remuneration for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
The below table details the comparative figures for Chief Executive remuneration for the performance years 2015 to 2024.
Chief Executive’s pay – Comparative figures 2015 to 2024
Nicandro Durante Jack Bowles Tadeu Marroco
2015 2016 2017 2018 20191 20191 2020 2021 2022 20232 20232,3 2024
Chief Executive's ‘single figure’ of
4,543 8,313 10,244 8,651 3,054 3,512 4,954 8,063 8,987 722 3,777 5,964
total remuneration (£’000)
STI paid as % of maximum
100% 100% 97.2% 100% 50.0% 96.0% 71.1% 85.7% 77.7% —% 61.3% 78.6%
opportunity
LTI paid as % of maximum
8.7% 46.0% 96.1% 70.5% 69.3% 69.9% 54.2% 49.1% 58.9% —% 38.2% 42.1%
opportunity
Notes:
1. For 2019, the 'single figure' reflects the respective periods Jack Bowles and Nicandro Durante served as Chief Executive. Nicandro Durante retired as Chief Executive on 1 April 2019.
Historical data is taken from the Directors’ Remuneration Reports for the relevant years and is presented (as appropriate) on the basis of the ‘single figure’ calculation as prescribed in
the UK Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations.
2. For 2023, the 'single figure' reflects the respective periods for which Tadeu Marroco and Jack Bowles served as Chief Executive. Jack Bowles stepped down from the Board on 15 May 2023.
3. The 2023 figure has been updated to reflect the restated LTI amounts for the Chief Executive as per the single figure table on page 228.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the FTSE 100 index over the 10-year period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2024.
The chart shows the growth in value of a hypothetical £100 invested on 31 December 2014. The FTSE 100 index was selected as an
appropriate comparator group by the Committee due to the Company's position within the FTSE.
Total shareholder return (TSR) performance: 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2024
gnidloh
001£
lacitehtopyh
fo
eulaV
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
200
150
100
50
Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 Dec 19 Dec 20 Dec 21 Dec 22 Dec 23 Dec 24
British American Tobacco FTSE 100
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below sets out distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buy-backs, and total remuneration
paid to employees for the years 2023 and 2024. In 2024, there was a 16.9% increase in distributions to shareholders
and a 6.3% increase in total employee remuneration costs.
£2,664m
2023
£5,055m
£2,831m
2024
£5,911m
0m 1,000m 2,000m 3,000m 4,000m 5,000m 6,000m 7,000m
Remuneration¹ Shareholder distributions²
Notes:
1. Remuneration: represents the total employee remuneration costs for the Group, set out on page 277 within note 3 in the Notes on the Accounts.
2. Shareholder distributions represent the total dividends paid (£5,213 million) and share buy-backs (£698 million) made in 2024. For 2023, the amount represents the total dividends paid in 2023.
For further details please refer to page 55.
236
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Chief Executive Pay Ratio Disclosure
The below table reflects the Chief Executive pay ratio when compared to employees at the 25th percentile, median and 75th percentile
of the Group’s UK workforce pay for the years 2019 - 2024. The table also includes the salary and total remuneration figures for
employees at each percentile for 2024.
Chief Executive Pay Ratio
Year Method 25th percentile pay ratio Median pay ratio 75th percentile pay ratio
2024 Option A 94:1 56:1 27:1
20231,2 Option A 84:1 51:1 23:1
2022 Option A 167:1 108:1 43:1
2021 Option A 149:1 97:1 40:1
2020 Option A 103:1 66:1 29:1
2019 Option A 144:1 86:1 36:1
Employees remuneration for 2024
25th percentile Median 75th percentile
Salary £42,001 £66,734 £117,204
Total Remuneration3 £63,551 £106,536 £216,994
Notes:
1. The 2023 pay ratio figures are based on the pro-rated single figure for the Chief Executive, reflecting the respective periods for which Tadeu Marroco and Jack Bowles served in the role.
Jack Bowles stepped down from the Board on 15 May 2023.
2. 2023 pay ratio figures have been updated to reflect the restated 2023 LTI amounts for the Chief Executive as per the single figure on page 228.
3. Total Remuneration for the employees is based on the UK employees' data as at 31 December 2024, and is calculated as far as possible on the same basis as the Chief Executive single
figure calculation and includes salary, taxable benefits, short-term incentive, long-term incentive, dividends, pension benefits and any other remuneration receivable. For the purposes of
this analysis, the following methodology and assumptions have been used:
– Remuneration is annualised, where applicable, for the earnings period 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024;
– For all employees that are eligible for a car benefit, the applicable car allowance amounts have been used;
– For all employees that participate in the global International Executive Incentive Scheme or equivalent corporate incentive scheme, incentive payouts are calculated based on the
same metrics;
– For all employees that participate in the UK DC scheme, Company contributions of 15% of salary have been used;
– Employees on international assignment into and out of the UK have been included; however, assignment benefits, such as housing support, education support, home leave allowance
or relocation costs, have not been included as these are not consistent with the benefits included in the Chief Executive single figure calculation, which is consistent with the
approach taken last year;
– For hourly paid employees who are not full time, total pay and benefits have been pro-rated based on full-time employee hours.
Option A uses the total full-time equivalent remuneration for all UK employees for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 and has
been used to calculate the ratio as this is viewed to be the most robust and comprehensive means of assessment and is also reflective
of shareholder preferences. For the Chief Executive, the total remuneration as provided in the single figure of remuneration table on
page 228 has been used.
The figures above show a slight increase across all quartiles compared to 2023. The increase is mainly attributable to a higher STI out
turn in 2024 reflecting full-year salary and STI opportunity as the Chief Executive, and 2022 LTIP vesting which was granted to the Chief
Executive in his capacity as Finance Director at the time. Pay for the Chief Executive is heavily weighted towards the variable elements of
remuneration. Therefore, year-on-year movements in the pay ratio will largely be driven by STI and LTI outcomes. The majority of UK
employees do not participate in a similar type of long-term incentive plan and their overall remuneration is less leveraged compared to
the Chief Executive's remuneration with the variable pay opportunity accounting for 80% to 90% of total remuneration for the Chief
Executive. As such the Chief Executive pay ratio is likely to continue to vary over time. Fixed remuneration remained aligned with that of
the wider UK-based workforce, with the pension contribution percentage for the Chief Executive remaining aligned with the wider
workforce of up to 15% of salary.
The Company believes the median pay ratio for 2024 reflects the diversity of our business footprint and employee population across the
UK. The Group’s remuneration policies and practices are founded on a high degree of alignment and consistency, with total remuneration
at all levels providing competitive compensation that enables the attraction and retention of talent while also providing equitable
differentiated remuneration based on grade, performance and experience. Further details on all-employee remuneration at BAT can be
found on page 232.
237
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
Chair and Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
The following table shows the single figure of remuneration for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors in respect of qualifying services
for the year ended 31 December 2024, together with comparative figures for 2023.
Chair/Committee
Base fee membership fees1 Taxable benefits2 Total remuneration
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2024 20233 2024 20233 2024 20233 2024 20233
Luc Jobin (Chair)4 711 688 — — 17 17 728 705
Kandy Anand 104 100 48 28 4 4 156 132
Karen Guerra 104 100 29 28 3 4 136 132
Holly Keller Koeppel5 133 100 38 55 3 6 174 161
Murray Kessler6 104 16 29 4 55 1 188 21
Véronique Laury 104 100 29 28 3 3 136 131
Darrell Thomas 104 100 48 28 4 4 156 132
Serpil Timuray 104 8 29 2 — 4 — — 137 10
Former Non-Executive Directors
Sue Farr (stepped down 24/04/2024) 46 142 9 28 3 4 58 174
Dimitri Panayotopoulos (stepped down
24/04/2024) 32 100 18 55 — 3 50 158
Total 1,546 1,454 277 256 96 46 1,919 1,756
Notes:
1. Committee memberships are shown, together with changes during the year, in the reports of the respective committees in the Governance sections of the Directors’ Report.
2. Benefits for the Chair in 2024 comprised health insurance and ‘walk-in’ medical services of £10,113 (2023: £9,300), hotel accommodation and travel expenses of £4,320 (2023: £5,200),
and security service cost of £2,394 (2023: £1,550). The benefits for the other Non-Executive Directors principally comprised travel-related expenses incurred in connection with individual
and/or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and/or events and ‘walk-in’ medical services. The figures shown are grossed-up for tax (as appropriate) as, in line with the
UK market, it is the normal practice for the Company to pay the tax that may be due on any benefits.
3. The 2023 fees and benefits reflect the following appointment dates: Murray Kessler’s appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 6 November 2023 and Serpil Timuray's appointment
as a Non-Executive Director on 4 December 2023.
4. Luc Jobin receives a pension in respect of prior service to Imasco Limited (acquired in 2000 by the Group) and Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, a subsidiary of BAT. In 2024, this
amount was CAD$150,228 (£83,824), in 2023: CAD$150,228 (£88,878).
5. Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc. (DCP): as a former outside director of Reynolds American Inc. Holly Keller Koeppel participated in the DCP under
which she elected to defer payment of a portion of her Reynolds American retainers and meeting attendance fees to a Reynolds American stock account. Following the acquisition of
Reynolds American by BAT, amounts deferred to a stock account (Deferred Stock Units or DSUs) mirror the performance of, and receive dividend equivalents based on, BAT American
Depository Shares (ADSs). The DSUs of Holly Keller Koeppel are disclosed as a note to ‘Summary of Directors’ share interests'. DSUs deferred under the DCP will be paid in accordance
with the terms of the DCP, section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the Director’s existing deferral elections.
6. Taxable benefits for Murray Kessler include expenses relating to attendance at company-sponsored events which are treated by HMRC as taxable benefit in the United Kingdom. The
amounts include tax gross-up, where relevant.
Payments to past Directors or for loss of office
In addition to the payments to Mr Bowles, the Company's former Chief Executive Officer, which were disclosed in the Directors'
Remuneration Report for 2023, Mr Bowles received tax advice (pertaining to his subsisting long term incentive awards) in 2024 for which
the Group was invoiced £7,272 (plus VAT). It is anticipated that a further invoice in 2025 with reference to tax advice provided to Mr
Bowles in 2024, expected to be in the amount of £7,750 (plus VAT). As the payment of these amounts is a benefit in kind, the Group will
also settle the amount of tax arising for Mr Bowles if applicable. The aggregate amount of the invoices (including VAT) is anticipated to
be £32,774.
There were no other payments to past Directors or for loss of office.
238
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration policy implementation for 2025
Base Salary for 2025
The Remuneration Committee has determined the following salary for the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has considered a number of factors in determining the appropriate salary review for the Executive
Directors, including: the average salary increase for the wider workforce in the UK, the contribution of the Executive Directors, and
underlying Group performance in 2024.
Chief Executive Current Base salary Base salary from 1 Apr 2025 Percentage change %
Tadeu Marroco £1,384,000 £1,419,000 2.5%
Soraya Benchikh £800,000 £828,000 3.5%
Pensions and Benefits
No changes have been made to the pension and benefits provision for Executive Directors, noting that the pension provision for
Executive Directors has been aligned with the wider UK workforce since 2019.
Short-Term Incentive for 2025
STI opportunity levels for Executive Directors will be in line with those set out in our Directors’ Remuneration Policy. Due to the
commercial sensitivity of the targets, details for the year ending 31 December 2025 will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on
Remuneration for the year ending 31 December 2025.
As described in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement, the following performance measures and weightings will apply to the
STI in 2025:
2025 STI performance measures and weightings
Measures year-on-year % growth in total revenue at constant rates
Total Revenue Growth 10%
of exchange on an organic basis.
Adjusted Profit from Operations1 30% Measures year-on-year % growth at constant rates of exchange
on an organic basis.
Adjusted Cash Generated Measures annual adjusted organic cash generated from operations
from Operations2 25% at constant rates.
Transformation metrics
Measures year-on-year % improvement in organic revenue from Vapour,
New Categories Revenue Growth 12.5%
HP and Modern Oral at constant rates.
New Categories Adjusted Measures gross profit margin % accretion delivered by Vapour, HP and
12.5%
Gross Profit Margin Modern Oral products at constant rates of exchange on an organic basis.
Measures annual % reduction (versus 2020 baseline) in Scope 1 and 2 GHG
Sustainability - Climate 10% emissions from direct operations including direct emissions from BAT
owned facilities and indirect emissions associated with purchased energy.
Total 100%
Notes:
1. Notwithstanding the progress made towards a settlement agreement in 2024, given the outcome and the timing of the Canada litigation is unknown at the time of target setting, the
Committee determined that the Canadian business (excluding New Categories) should be removed for the purposes of the 2025 Adjusted Profit from Operations targets. The 2024
Adjusted Profit from Operations outcome figure will therefore also be adjusted to exclude Canada to ensure performance can be assessed on a like-for-like basis. This treatment is
consistent with the Group’s accounting treatment as it relates to the proposed Canadian settlement. The Committee reserves the right to review this approach in light of a change in
circumstances or other relevant factors in the future. Any adjustments will be fully explained in the 2025 Annual Report on Remuneration.
2. Net cash generated from operating activities, less net finance costs, net capital expenditure, dividends from associates and dividends paid to non-controlling interests and before cash
paid/received in respect of litigation. Adjusted CGFO is measured at constant rates of exchange.
239
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
Performance Share Plan awards for 2025
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer will be granted PSP awards equal to a maximum of 600% of salary and 450% of
salary, respectively, subject to the approval of the 2025 Remuneration Policy.
The PSP performance measures applicable to the 2025 awards will strengthen the focus on portfolio transformation, together with
the incentivisation of the continued financial performance of the Group, creating a strong alignment with the Group’s long-term
strategy delivery and the interests of shareholders. The measures and targets for the 2025 PSP awards are set out below:
–Relative TSR (20%): BAT's total shareholder return over the performance period relative to the total shareholder return of the TSR
peer group.
–Earnings per share (25%): Measures adjusted, diluted EPS compound annual growth rate (CAGR) over a 3-year performance period
at constant rates of exchange.
–Operating Cash Flow Conversion (20%): Measures average operating cash flow as a % of Adjusted Operating Profit over the
performance period at current rates of exchange.
Transformation metrics
–Smokeless Revenue/Total Revenue (10%): Measures revenue delivered from New Categories, Traditional Oral and Beyond Nicotine
products over total revenue at current rates of exchange.
–New Categories Contribution Margin (10%): Measures New Categories Contribution over New Categories revenue, where New
Categories Contribution is the contribution to APFO from Vapour, HP and Modern Oral products. It is stated after deduction of
attributable costs and allocated cross category shared costs, before the deduction of administrative overheads and excluding the
impact of adjusting items in line with the policy for APFO. The measure is assessed at constant rates of exchange.
–Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) (15%): Measures annual average ROCE growth on an adjusted basis at current rates over a 3-
year performance period: profit from operations, excluding adjusting items and including dividends received from associates and
joint ventures as a proportion of average total assets less current liabilities. The approach taken is consistent with the Group’s
financial reporting standards. Material events (e.g. material impairments and/or acquisitions) will be reported to and considered by
the Committee as part of the assessment of the Group’s underlying performance. Measurement of performance is based on an
average growth rate over the 3-year performance period to moderate potential foreign exchange rate fluctuations which may
impact the ROCE in a specific year.
The targets have been set having carefully considered our internal forecasts and external market expectations for future growth, as well
as the current business environment in which the Group is operating. The Committee is confident that the targets remain suitably
stretching and incentivising for participants, ensuring only maximum payout for exceptional performance. In addition, the Committee
retains discretion to determine whether the formulaic outcome of the 2025 PSP at vesting is a fair reflection of underlying business
performance and consistent with the shareholder experience over the performance period and, if not, to adjust the outcome accordingly.
PSP measures Weighting Threshold (15%) Maximum (100%)
Relative TSR1 20% Median Upper Quartile
Earnings per share2 (at constant rates) CAGR 25% 3% 7%
Operating cash flow conversion ratio 20% 94% 99%
Transformation metrics
Smokeless Revenue / Total Revenue 10% 21% 24%
New Categories Contribution Margin 10% 20% 25%
Return on Capital Employed 15% 0.6% 0.8%
Total 100%
Notes:
1. The 2025 TSR peer group constituents are: Altria Group, Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Coca-Cola, Diageo, Heineken, Imperial Brands, Japan Tobacco, PepsiCo, Pernod Ricard, Philip
Morris International, Procter & Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, and Unilever.
2. Notwithstanding the progress made towards a settlement agreement in 2024, as the outcome and the timing of the Canada litigation is unknown at the time of target setting, the
Committee determined that the Canadian business (excluding New Categories) should be removed for the purposes of the 2025 PSP Earnings per share targets. The 2024 Earnings per
share outcome figure will therefore also be adjusted to remove the Canadian business (excluding New Categories) to ensure performance can be assessed on a like-for-like basis over
the performance period. This treatment is consistent with the Group’s accounting treatment as it relates to the Canadian settlement. The Committee reserves the right to review this
approach in light of a change in circumstances or other relevant factors in the future. Any adjustments will be fully explained in future Annual Reports on Remuneration.
240
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2025 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The 2025 Non-Executive Directors’ fees structure is set out in the table below. The Chair's fee and the fees for Non-Executive Directors
have been reviewed with the changes below to apply in May 2025. Adjustments to fees have taken into consideration the increasing
demands placed on the Board, the strategic agenda of the business, the complexity of the sector and the approach to salary
adjustments among the wider UK workforce. The Chair's fee will be adjusted by 3.7% and the fees of Non-Executive Directors, when
viewed in aggregate, will be adjusted by 4.1%.
Fees from 1 May 2025 Fees to 30 April 2025
£ £
Chair's fee 745,000 718,000
Base fee 104,800 104,800
Senior Independent Director 43,150 43,150
Audit Committee: Chair 43,150 43,150
Audit Committee: Member 20,000 15,850
Nominations Committee: Chair — —
Nominations Committee: Member 15,000 13,600
Remuneration Committee: Chair 43,150 43,150
Remuneration Committee: Member 20,000 15,850
Other disclosures
Annual change in remuneration of Directors and employees
The following table shows the percentage change in the Directors’ remuneration measured against a comparator group comprising the
UK employee population across all UK entities. This comparator group is considered to be the most appropriate group due to the limited
number of employees employed under BAT p.l.c. contracts outside of the Director group. In addition, using a more widely-drawn group
encompassing the worldwide nature of the Group’s business would also present practical difficulties in collation and would be a less
relevant comparator given the significant variations in employee pay across the Group, the differing economic conditions and wide
variations in gross domestic product per capita.
% change in salary/fees % change in taxable benefits1 % change in STI
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to
2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
Executive Directors
Tadeu Marroco2 20 43 — 4 5 (15) 55 57 (33) 22 64 39 (9) 25 (24)
Soraya Benchikh3 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Chair
Luc Jobin4 3 3 28 334 2 1 42 59 24 (79) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Non-Executive Directors
Kandy Anand5 18 3 n/a n/a n/a 1 (10) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Sue Farr6 — 20 18 1 2 (22) 9 931 — (100) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Karen Guerra7 4 3 — — n/a (15) (24) 3,977 — n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Holly Keller Koeppel8 10 2 — 1 2 (49) (61) 4,907 (99) (82) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Murray Kessler9 2 — n/a n/a n/a 10,130 — n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Véronique Laury10 4 2 n/a n/a n/a (5) 100 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Dimitri Panayotopoulos11 — (12) (12) 9 21 (87) 8 262 (78) (88) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Darrell Thomas 18 3 (6) n/a n/a (5) 48 100 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Serpil Timuray12 2 n/a n/a n/a n/a 100 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Average UK-based
employee13 7 5 5 6 3 16 (23) 2 (1) 1 7 — 2 20 (5)
Notes:
1. Benefits: The changes in taxable benefit values for 2022 vs 2021 and 2021 vs 2020 were primarily a result of COVID-related travel restrictions in 2021 and 2020 with minimum or no travel
compared to 2022 when COVID-related restrictions were lifted, as well as subsistence costs associated with business functions due to COVID-related travel restrictions throughout
2020 and 2021. Further details of the taxable benefits figures can be found in the table on page 238.
2. Tadeu Marroco was appointed as an Executive Director from 5 August 2019, therefore the figures for 2019 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change. Tadeu Marroco was
appointed as Chief Executive from 15 May 2023.
3. Soraya Benchikh was appointed as an Executive Director from 1 May 2024. Accordingly, no year-on-year change figures have been included.
4. Luc Jobin was appointed Chair from 28 April 2021. The change in fees from 2020 to 2021 is due to the increase in fees received following the appointment.
5. Kandy Anand was appointed to the Board on 14 February 2022, therefore the figures for 2022 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change. Kandy Anand was appointed
as Remuneration Committee Chair from 24 April 2024, therefore the change in fees from 2023 to 2024 is due to the increase in fees received following the appointment.
6. Sue Farr stepped down from the board effective 24 April 2024, therefore figures for 2024 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change.
7. Karen Guerra was appointed to the Board on 14 September 2020, therefore figures for 2020 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change.
8. Holly Keller Koeppel was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 24 April 2024 therefore the change in fees from 2023 to 2024 in due to the increase in fees received following
the appointment.
9. Murray Kessler was appointed to the Board on 6 November 2023, therefore figures for 2023 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change.
10.Véronique Laury was appointed to the Board on 19 September 2022, therefore figures for 2022 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change.
11.Dimitri Panayotopoulos stepped down from the Board effective 24 April 2024, therefore figures for 2024 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change.
12.Serpil Timuray was appointed to the Board on 4 December 2023, therefore figures for 2023 were annualised to calculate the year-on-year change.
13.The data for the UK-based employees comparator group (which excludes directors) is on a full-time equivalent basis and is made up as follows as at 31 December 2024: (1) the weighted
average base salaries; (2) the average taxable benefits per grade; and (3) the weighted average bonus result based on that population as at that date.
241
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
Directors’ Share Interests
Summary of Directors’ Share Interests
Outstanding scheme interests 31 Dec 20241
Unvested
awards
subject to
Unvested continued
awards subject employment
to only
performance (DSBS, LTIP in Total of all
conditions and extended Total ordinary interests in
Ordinary continued vesting period Unvested shares subject ordinary
shares held at employment and buyout interests to outstanding shares at
31 Dec 2024 (LTIP) awards) (Sharesave) scheme interests 31 Dec 2024
Executive Directors
Tadeu Marroco2 135,338 489,844 185,927 1,443 677,214 812,552
Soraya Benchikh3 38,983 119,313 65,918 — 185,231 224,214
Chair of the Board
Luc Jobin4 90,236 — — — — 90,236
Non-Executive Directors
Kandy Anand4 7,585 — — — — 7,585
Karen Guerra 23,400 — — — — 23,400
Holly Keller Koeppel5 — — — — — —
Murray Kessler4 5,000 — — — — 5,000
Véronique Laury 1,650 — — — — 1,650
Darrell Thomas4 4,600 — — — — 4,600
Serpil Timuray — — — — — —
Sue Farr (stepped down 24/04/2024)6 392 — — — — 392
Dimitri Panayotopoulos (stepped down
24/04/2024)6 3,300 — — — — 3,300
Changes from 31 December 2024:
– Tadeu Marroco: purchase of 5 ordinary shares on 2 January 2025 and 4 ordinary shares on 5 February 2025 under the SIP and delivery on 5 February 2025 of 387 ordinary shares,
representing dividend equivalents due on outstanding DSBS awards in respect of the quarterly dividend paid to shareholders on 3 February 2025.
– Soraya Benchikh: purchase of 5 ordinary shares on 2 January 2025 and 5 ordinary shares on 5 February 2025 under the SIP.
– There were no changes in the interests of the Chair and the other Non-Executive Directors.
Notes:
1. On 29 March 2024, Tadeu Marroco received 18,727 shares following the vesting of his 2021 awards under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme. On May 9 2024, Tadeu Marroco exercised
433 options granted to him under the UK Sharesave scheme. No other options were exercised by Directors in 2024.
2. Tadeu Marroco: ordinary shares held include 2,236 held by the trustees of the BAT Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
3. Soraya Benchikh: joined the Board on 1 May 2024. Upon joining, the following replacement awards were granted to Ms Benchikh to compensate for the long-term incentives that she
lost with her previous employer upon joining BAT: an award of 7,572 BAT shares (on a net-of-tax basis) which were immediately vested, an award of 23,368 shares vesting on 30
September 2025, and an award of 42,550 shares vesting on 30 September 2026. Ordinary shares held include 15 shares held by the trustees of the SIP.
4. American Depositary Shares (ADSs): each of the interests in ordinary shares held by Luc Jobin, Kandy Anand, Murray Kessler and Darrell Thomas consists of an equivalent number of BAT
ADSs, each of which represents one ordinary share in the Company.
5. Holly Keller Koeppel: at the date of this report, Holly Keller Koeppel, being a former director of Reynolds American Inc. and a participant in the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors
of Reynolds American (DCP), holds Deferred Stock Units (DSUs) which were granted prior to becoming a Director of BAT. In accordance with an election made by Holly Keller Koeppel
in December 2016, a proportion of her DSUs representing her fees as a director of Reynolds American Inc. for 2017 are payable from January 2023 over a period of 10 years, with the
remainder of her DSUs (representing her fees as a director of Reynolds American Inc. in prior years) becoming payable following her cessation as a Director of BAT. Each DSU entitles
the holder to receive a cash payment equal to the value of one BAT ADS. The number of DSUs increases on each dividend date by reference to the value of dividends declared on the
ADSs underlying the DSUs. Ms Koeppel currently holds 33,906 DSUs (2023: 30,721 DSUs).
6. Sue Farr and Dimitri Panayotopoulos: holdings are as of the date of departure (24 April 2024).
242
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Further details in relation to performance conditions attaching to outstanding scheme interests
LTIP awards granted in 2023 LTIP awards granted in 2024
1 January 2023–31 December 2025 1 January 2024–31 December 2026
Threshold Maximum Threshold Maximum
Weighting (15% vests) (100% vests) Weighting (15% vests) (100% vests)
Relative TSR1 20% Median Upper quartile 20% Median Upper quartile
Ranking against a peer group of
international FMCG companies
EPS growth at current rates of exchange 15% 5% CAGR 10% CAGR 15% 2% CAGR 6% CAGR
Compound annual growth (CAGR) in
adjusted diluted EPS measured at current
rates of exchange
EPS growth at constant rates of 15% 5% CAGR 10% CAGR 15% 2% CAGR 6% CAGR
exchange
Compound annual growth (CAGR) in
adjusted diluted EPS measured at constant
rates of exchange
Revenue growth 15% 3% CAGR 5% CAGR 15% 3% CAGR 5% CAGR
Compound annual growth (CAGR)
measured at constant rates of exchange
New Categories revenue growth 15% 20% CAGR 30% CAGR 15% 15% CAGR 25% CAGR
Compound annual growth (CAGR)
measured at constant rates of exchange
Operating cash flow conversion ratio 20% 85% 95% 20% 87.5% 97.5%
Measured at current rates of exchange,
as a percentage of APFO
Note:
1. The relative TSR peer group constituents for the LTIP awards granted in 2023 and 2024 are: Altria Group, Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Coca-Cola, Diageo, Heineken, Imperial
Brands, Japan Tobacco, PepsiCo, Pernod Ricard, Philip Morris International, Procter & Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, and Unilever.
Directors and Management Board
No Directors or Management Board Members own more than 1% of the ordinary shares in issue. At 5 February 2025, the Directors and
Management Board collectively held interests (or their calculated equivalents) under the Company share schemes of: 1,069,119 ordinary shares,
828,891 restricted share units, 2,065,673 performance share units, 11,891 options over ordinary shares and 33,906 deferred share units.
Shareholder dilution – options and awards outstanding
Satisfaction of Company share plan awards in accordance with the Investment New ordinary shares issued by the Company during the year ended
Association’s Principles of Remuneration 31 December 2024
–by the issue of new ordinary shares; –275,824 ordinary shares issued by the Company in relation
–ordinary shares issued from treasury only up to a maximum to the Sharesave Scheme;
of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital in a rolling –267,649 treasury shares issued by the Company in relation
10-year period; to the LTI awards vesting;
–within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue (as newly –a total of 918,656 Sharesave Scheme options over ordinary
issued ordinary shares or from treasury) 5% of its issued share shares and a total of 1,889,380 LTI awards that may be settled
capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans using newly-issued or treasury shares were outstanding at
(in line with changes to the Principles of Remuneration, this 5% 31 December 2024, representing 0.13% of the Company’s issued
limit is not included in the new LTI to be approved by share capital (excluding shares held in treasury); and
shareholders at the 2025 AGM).; and –options outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme are
–the rules of the Company’s DSBS do not allow for the satisfaction exercisable until 1 April 2030 at option prices ranging from 1,927p
of awards by the issue of new ordinary shares. to 2,727p.
243
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
The Remuneration Committee Governance
Remuneration Committee current members
Kandy Anand (Chair)
Karen Guerra
Murray S. Kessler
Serpil Timuray
Role
As set out in the Terms of Reference, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for:
–determining and proposing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (including salary, benefits, performance-based variable rewards and
retirement benefits) for shareholder approval;
–determining, within the terms of the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the specific remuneration packages for the Chair and
the Executive Directors, on appointment, on review and, if appropriate, any compensation payment due on termination of appointment;
–the setting of targets applicable for the Company’s performance-based variable reward schemes and determining achievement
against those targets, including consideration of factors relating to any potential adjustments, for example, to reflect changes in the
Group’s business context such as restructuring, mergers and acquisitions activity; exercising discretion where appropriate and as
provided by the applicable scheme rules and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy;
–reviewing Group workforce remuneration and related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with Group culture, taking
these into account in setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, members of the Management Board and the Company
Secretary, providing feedback to the Board on workforce reward, incentives and conditions applicable across the Group, and
supporting the Board’s monitoring of the Group’s culture and its alignment with the Group’s purpose, values and strategy;
–setting remuneration for members of the Management Board and the Company Secretary; and
–monitoring and advising the Board on any major changes to the policy on employee benefit structures for the Group.
Revised terms of reference for the Committee were introduced with effect from 1 August 2024 to reflect the introduction of the 2024 UK
Corporate Governance Code, as it applies to the Company from 1 January 2025, including to specify the Committee's responsibility for
maintaining appropriate malus and clawback arrangements.
Attendance at meetings in 2024
Member Meeting attendance
Name2(a) since Attended/Eligible to attend1(a)
Kandy Anand2(b) 2022 6/6
Karen Guerra2(c) 2025 0/0
Murray S. Kessler2(d) 2023 6/6
Serpil Timuray 2023 6/6
Dimitri Panayotopoulos2(e) 2015 - 2024 1/1
Sue Farr2(e) 2016 - 2024 1/1
Notes:
1. Number of meetings in 2024: (a) the Committee held six meetings in 2024, two of which were ad hoc. Four meetings of the Committee are scheduled for 2025.
2. Membership: (a) all members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 Provisions 10 and 2 and
applicable NYSE listing standards; (b) Kandy Anand succeeded Dimitri Panayotopoulos as Chair of the Remuneration Committee from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM; (c) Karen Guerra
joined the Committee with effect from 10 February 2025, (d) Murray Kessler will cease to be a member of the Committee on stepping down from the Board with effect from 17 February
2025, and (e) Dimitri Panayotopoulos and Sue Farr ceased to be members of the Committee on stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 24 April 2024..
Other attendees: the Chair, the Chief Executive, the Chief People Officer, the Group Head of Reward and other senior management,
including the Company Secretary, may be consulted and provide advice, guidance and assistance to the Remuneration Committee.
They may also attend Committee meetings (or parts thereof) by invitation. None of the Chair, any Executive Director or member of
senior management plays any part in determining their own respective remuneration.
Independence and advice
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC): PwC were appointed by the Remuneration Committee following a rigorous tender process in
January 2020 as one of the Remuneration Committee’s remuneration consultants. PwC provided independent advice to the Committee
in 2024 and a representative of PwC attended scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings in 2024. PwC's advice included, for
example, support with market trends and comparator group analysis, updates on market practice and shareholder engagement
perspectives. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consulting Group and, as such, operates under the code of conduct in relation to
executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The Committee is satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent. The
Committee is comfortable that the PwC advisory team is not involved in any other services PwC provides to the Company, such as tax,
corporate finance and consulting services to Group companies worldwide excluding the U.S. Total fees for the provision of remuneration
advice to the Committee in 2024 were £191,800.
244
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Meridian Compensation Partners (Meridian): Meridian, a U.S. based advisory firm, were appointed by the Remuneration Committee
following a rigorous tender process in January 2020 as one of the Remuneration Committee’s remuneration consultants. Meridian
provided advice to the Committee in 2024 and a representative of Meridian attended scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings in
2024. Meridian's advice included advice on remuneration matters including market trends, shareholder engagement perspectives and
comparator group analysis from a U.S. perspective. The Committee is satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent.
Meridian did not provide any other services to the Company. Total fees for the provision of remuneration advice to the Committee in
2024 were US$33,420.
Deloitte LLP were appointed by the Remuneration Committee as one of the Remuneration Committee's remuneration consultants
replacing PwC from December 2024 following a rigorous tender process. Deloitte LLP provided independent advice to the Committee
following their appointment. A representative of Deloitte LLP attended the scheduled Remuneration Committee meeting in December
2024. Deloitte's advice included, for example, support with updates on market practice, shareholder engagement perspectives and
independent measurement of the relative TSR performance conditions. Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consulting Group
and, as such, operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The Committee is satisfied
that the advice received is objective and independent. The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP advisory team is not involved
in any other services Deloitte LLP provides to the Company. Total fees for the provision of remuneration advice to the Committee in 2024
were £22,667.
Regular work programme 2024
The Remuneration Committee:
–reviewed the Chair's fee from 1 May 2024, taking into account market positioning, the broader external environment and the level
of salary increases awarded to UK employees;
–reviewed salary for the Chief Executive to take effect from 1 April 2024, taking into account market positioning, the external
environment including stakeholder expectations and shareholder perspectives, and the level of salary increases awarded to
UK employees;
–reviewed salaries for members of the Management Board and the Company Secretary from 1 April 2024, taking into account market
positioning, the external market environment and the level of salary increases awarded to UK employees;
–assessed the achievement against the targets for the 2023 STI award and set the STI targets for 2024 to provide an appropriate
degree of stretch within the target ranges to drive performance in alignment with the Group's strategic objectives and shareholder
interests;
–reviewed updates on performance against the 2024 STI target measures and for outstanding LTI awards;
–assessed the achievement against the performance conditions for the vesting of the 2021 LTIP award, determined the contingent
level of LTI awards for March 2024 and reviewed the associated performance conditions;
–assessed the achievement against the targets for the 2023 Share Reward Scheme and set the targets for the 2024 award;
–reviewed the Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2023 prior to its approval
by the Board and subsequent proposal to shareholders at the Company’s AGM on 24 April 2024;
–reviewed the 2024 AGM voting results relating to remuneration resolutions, market trends in the context of that annual general
meeting season and corporate governance developments relating to executive remuneration and wider workforce remuneration
in the UK and the U.S.;
–monitored the continued application of the Company’s shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and members of the
Management Board; and
–reviewed the Committee’s effectiveness following the Board and Committees review process (discussed on pages 187 to 188).
Directors' Remuneration Policy Review
–In preparation for the presentation of a revised remuneration policy to shareholders in 2025, the Committee conducted an in-depth
review of the current policy, proposed changes and approach to shareholder engagement. An associated programme of shareholder
engagement was subsequently led by the Committee Chair.
–In determining the revised Directors' Remuneration Policy to be proposed to shareholders at the Company's AGM in 2025, the
Committee has taken into account shareholder feedback, the Group's transformation strategy, talent marketplace, remuneration
and related policies applicable to the wider workforce, the alignment of incentives and rewards with the Group's values and culture,
the application of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, future application of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, and other
applicable regulations.
Other activities in 2024
The Remuneration Committee:
–reviewed remuneration arrangements in connection with Management Board role changes during the year;
–assessed various aspects of the Group’s workforce remuneration strategy and alignment with our values, strategic objectives,
Executive Directors’ remuneration and external market positioning, with specific focus on variable pay architecture for management
grade employees across the Group;
–approved changes to the methodology for calculating the share of market read for the STI volume share metric in several markets,
based on the local market environment and reporting capabilities;
–reviewed the Group's pay equality data and associated reporting, including UK gender pay reporting for 2023 for applicable UK Group
companies prior to publication in March 2024, and voluntary reporting on international gender pay and ethnicity pay;
–conducted a competitive tender exercise to select new UK remuneration advisers to the Committee which led to the appointment of
Deloitte LLP from December 2024; and
–reviewed the Committee's Terms of Reference to align with the requirements of the 2024 Code and recommended revisions to those
Terms of Reference be introduced from 1 August 2024, which were subsequently approved by the Board.
245
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Remuneration Report
2024 Annual Report on Remuneration
Continued
Voting on Remuneration and Engagement with Shareholders
At the AGM on 24 April 2024, shareholders considered and voted on the 2023 Directors’ Remuneration Report as set out in the table
below. No other resolutions in respect of Directors’ remuneration or incentives were considered at the 2024 AGM. The current
Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 28 April 2022 as set out below. The full Directors’ Remuneration
Policy is set out in the 2021 Annual Report on Remuneration and summarised on page 227. Further information regarding shareholder
engagement in relation to remuneration matters is set out in the Annual Statement on Remuneration on page 207 and in the discussion
of Board engagement with shareholders on pages 178 and 179.
Approval of Directors' Remuneration Report1 and Policy2
Directors' Remuneration Policy 2022 AGM Directors' Remuneration Report 2024 AGM
Percentage for 94.85 96.58
Votes for (including discretionary) 1,663,434,518 1,509,240,342
Percentage against 5.15 3.42
Votes against 90,313,970 53,407,399
Total votes cast excluding votes withheld 1,753,748,488 1,562,647,741
Votes withheld3 2,811,496 1,912,941
Total votes cast including votes withheld 1,756,559,984 1,564,560,682
Notes:
1. Directors’ Remuneration Report: does not include the part of the Remuneration Report containing the Directors' Remuneration Policy (see note 2 below).
2. Directors’ Remuneration Policy: was approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM held on 28 April 2022 and is set out in full in the 2021 Annual Report on Remuneration.
3. Votes withheld: these are not included in the final proxy figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board on 12 February 2025 and signed on its behalf by:
Kandy Anand
Chair, Remuneration Committee
12 February 2025
246
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Governance
This page is intentionally left blank
247
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
248
This page is intentionally left blank
249
This page is intentionally left blank
250
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
251
This page is intentionally left blank
252
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
253
This page is intentionally left blank
254
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
255
This page is intentionally left blank
256
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
257
This page is intentionally left blank
258
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
259
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p.l.c.
Opinions on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying Group Balance Sheet of British American Tobacco p.l.c. and subsidiaries (the Group) as of December
31, 2024, and 2023, the related Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Statement of Changes in
Equity, and Group Cash Flow Statement for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2024, and the related notes
(collectively, the consolidated financial statements). We also have audited the Group’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Group as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2024, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board. Also in our opinion, the Group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2024 based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Basis for Opinions
The Group’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group’s consolidated
financial statements and an opinion on the Group’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public
accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Group in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to
error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the
consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such
procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial
statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or
disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex
judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements,
taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit
matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Impairment analysis of goodwill and trademarks and similar intangibles arising from the 2017 acquisition of Reynolds
American Inc. (Reynolds American)
As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group, as at December 31, 2024, has goodwill and trademarks of
£31,491 million and £51,930 million respectively, arising from the 2017 acquisition of Reynolds American.
We identified the evaluation of the impairment analysis of goodwill and relevant trademarks arising from the 2017 acquisition of Reynolds
American as a critical audit matter. There was a high degree of auditor judgment involved in evaluating: (i) the projected net revenue (for
the forecast period) and post-tax discount rates used in the analysis of the recoverable amount of the goodwill allocated to the Reynolds
American cash-generating unit, and the recoverable amount of the relevant trademarks and similar intangibles (Newport, Camel, Pall
Mall, Natural American Spirit (NAS) and Grizzly); (ii) the terminal growth rates used in the analysis of the recoverable amount of the
goodwill allocated to the Reynolds American cash-generating unit, and the recoverable amount of the Grizzly indefinite lived trademark;
and (iii) the long-term volume growth rate beyond the forecast period used in the analysis of the recoverable amount of the Newport
definite lived trademark.
The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter. We evaluated the design and tested the
operating effectiveness of relevant internal controls related to the goodwill, trademarks and similar intangibles impairment testing
260
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
process, including controls related to the development of the projected net revenue, management’s determination of the applicable
long-term growth rates, terminal growth rates and post-tax discount rates. In addition, we assessed the impairment analysis by:
–assessing and challenging Reynolds American’s projected net revenue and long-term growth rates of relevant trademarks by
examining externally derived publicly available data, including broker and analyst reports, industry reports, macro-economic
assumptions, academic and scientific studies, and regulatory changes;
–challenging the projected net revenue and long-term growth rates by comparing the historical projections to actual results to assess
the Group’s ability to accurately forecast;
–performing sensitivity analysis on the projected net revenue, long-term growth rates and post-tax discount rates to assess the impact
of changes in these assumptions on the amount of headroom for the Reynolds American goodwill and relevant trademarks and similar
intangibles; and
–involving a valuation professional with specialised skills and knowledge, who assisted in independently developing a range of post-tax
discount rates using market data points for comparable companies and comparing these market rates to those utilised by Reynolds
American.
Canadian legal proceedings
As discussed in Note 24 and Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group’s operating company in Canada, Imperial
Tobacco Canada Limited (“Imperial”), has received an unfavourable judgment on the smoking and health class actions certified by the
Quebec Superior Court. As a result of this judgment, in 2019 Imperial filed for creditor protection under the Companies’ Creditors
Arrangement Act (the “CCAA”). In October 2024, while under CCAA, the court-appointed mediator and monitor filed a proposed plan of
compromise and arrangement to resolve all outstanding tobacco litigation in Canada. Substantially similar proposed plans were also filed
for Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. and JTI-Macdonald Corp. (collectively the “proposed plans”). Under the proposed plans, if ultimately
sanctioned and implemented, Imperial, Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. and JTI-Macdonald Corp would pay an aggregated settlement
amount of CAD$ 32.5 billion (approximately £18 billion). At December 31, 2024, a provision of £6.2 billion has been recognised.
We identified the evaluation of the Canadian legal proceedings as a critical audit matter because complex and subjective auditor
judgment was required in evaluating the Group’s ability to estimate the timing and extent of any future economic outflow arising from
the ultimate resolution of the Canadian litigation. This involved evaluating the assumptions related to the rate at which volumes will
decline and the execution of future pricing plans (collectively “projected net revenue”), which were used to derive this estimate and the
related disclosures.
The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter. We evaluated the design and tested the
operating effectiveness of certain internal controls related to the legal exposure process including controls related to the estimation of
the timing and extent of any future economic outflow arising from the ultimate resolution of the Canadian litigation. In addition, we
assessed the Canadian legal proceedings by:
–reading letters received directly from the Group's external and internal legal counsel that evaluated the current status of the Canadian
legal proceedings. We further inquired of internal legal counsel to evaluate their basis for conclusions in their letter;
–assessing and challenging Imperial’s projected net revenue by examining externally derived publicly available data, and historical trends;
–challenging the projected net revenue by comparing the historical projections to actual results to assess Imperial’s ability to accurately
forecast;
–performing sensitivity analyses on Imperial’s projected net revenue to assess the impact of changes in this assumption on the amount
of the provision recorded; and
–assessing whether the Group’s disclosures detail the key estimates and sensitivities including any impact of changes to key
assumptions used in the estimation of the provision for Imperial.
/s/ KPMG LLP
We have served as the Group’s auditor since 2015.
London, United Kingdom
February 12, 2025
261
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Income Statement
For the years ended 31 December
2024 2023 2022
Notes £m £m £m
Revenue1 2 25,867 27,283 27,655
Raw materials and consumables used (4,565) (4,545) (4,781)
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 129 (96) 227
Employee benefit costs 3 (2,831) (2,664) (2,972)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 4 (3,101) (28,614) (1,305)
Other operating income 5 340 432 722
Loss on reclassification from amortised cost to fair value (10) (9) (5)
Other operating expenses 6, 33 (13,093) (7,538) (9,018)
Profit/(loss) from operations 2 2,736 (15,751) 10,523
Net finance costs 8 (1,098) (1,895) (1,641)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 2,9 1,900 585 442
Profit/(loss) before taxation 3,538 (17,061) 9,324
Taxation on ordinary activities 10 (357) 2,872 (2,478)
Profit/(loss) for the year 3,181 (14,189) 6,846
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 3,068 (14,367) 6,666
Non-controlling interests 113 178 180
3,181 (14,189) 6,846
Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic 11 136.7 (646.6) 293.3
Diluted 11 136.0 (646.6) 291.9
Note:
1. Revenue is net of duty, excise and other taxes of £33,818 million, £36,917 million and £38,527 million for the years ended 31 December 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
262
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the years ended 31 December
2024 2023 2022
Notes £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year 3,181 (14,189) 6,846
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: (50) (3,317) 8,506
Foreign currency translation and hedges of net investments in foreign operations
– differences on exchange from translation of foreign operations (195) (4,049) 8,923
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year 22(c) — 552 5
– net investment hedges - net fair value gains/(losses) on derivatives 20 236 (578)
– net investment hedges - differences on exchange on borrowings 17 9 (21)
Cash flow hedges
– net fair value gains 65 59 81
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year 36 12 101
– tax on net fair value gains in respect of cash flow hedges 10(f) (23) (23) (17)
Investments held at fair value
– net fair value (losses)/gains 18 — (6) 6
Associates
– share of OCI, net of tax 9 (13) (107) 6
–differences on exchange reclassified to profit or loss 9,22(c) 43 — —
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: (7) (57) 201
Retirement benefit schemes
– net actuarial (losses)/gains 15 (19) (106) 316
– movements in surplus restrictions 15 (14) 24 (39)
– tax on actuarial losses/(gains) in respect of subsidiaries 10(f) (1) 30 (95)
Investments held at fair value
– net fair value losses 18 (6) — —
Associates – share of OCI, net of tax 9 33 (5) 19
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of tax (57) (3,374) 8,707
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax 3,124 (17,563) 15,553
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 3,013 (17,699) 15,370
Non-controlling interests 111 136 183
3,124 (17,563) 15,553
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
263
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
Attributable to owners of the parent
Share
premium,
capital Total
redemption attributable Perpetual Non-
Share and merger Other Retained to owners of hybrid controlling Total
capital reserves reserves earnings parent bonds interests equity
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2024 614 26,630 (894) 24,531 50,881 1,685 368 52,934
Total comprehensive (expense)/income
for the year comprising: — — (21) 3,034 3,013 — 111 3,124
Profit for the year — — — 3,068 3,068 — 113 3,181
Other comprehensive expense
for the year — — (21) (34) (55) — (2) (57)
Other changes in equity
Cash flow hedges reclassified and
reported in total assets — — 13 — 13 — — 13
Employee share options
–value of employee services 28 — — — 70 70 — — 70
–proceeds from new shares issued 22(b) — 6 — — 6 — — 6
Dividends and other appropriations
–ordinary shares 22(f) — — — (5,209) (5,209) — — (5,209)
–to non-controlling interests — — — — — — (127) (127)
Purchase of own shares
–held in employee share
ownership trusts — — — (94) (94) — — (94)
–share buy-back programme 22(c)(vi) — — — (698) (698) — — (698)
– shares bought back and cancelled 22(a),(b) (7) 7 — — — — — —
Treasury shares cancelled 22(a),(b) (22) 22 — — — — — —
Perpetual hybrid bonds
–coupons paid — — — (56) (56) — — (56)
–tax on coupons paid — — — 14 14 — — 14
Other movements — — — 18 18 — — 18
Balance at
31 December 2024 585 26,665 (902) 21,610 47,958 1,685 352 49,995
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
264
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Attributable to owners of the parent
Share
premium,
capital In respect Total
redemption of assets attributable Perpetual Non-
Share and merger Other Retained held-for- to owners of hybrid controlling Total
capital reserves reserves earnings sale parent bonds interests equity
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2023 614 26,628 2,655 44,081 (295) 73,683 1,685 342 75,710
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income for the year comprising: — — (3,281) (14,418) — (17,699) — 136 (17,563)
(Loss)/profit for the year — — — (14,367) — (14,367) — 178 (14,189)
Other comprehensive expense
for the year — — (3,281) (51) — (3,332) — (42) (3,374)
Other changes in equity
Cash flow hedges reclassified
and reported in total assets — — 27 — — 27 — — 27
Employee share options
–value of employee services 28 — — — 71 — 71 — — 71
– proceeds from new
shares issued — 2 — — — 2 — — 2
Dividends and other
appropriations
–ordinary shares 22(f) — — — (5,071) — (5,071) — — (5,071)
–to non-controlling interests — — — — — — — (110) (110)
Purchase of own shares
–held in employee share
ownership trusts — — — (110) — (110) — — (110)
Perpetual hybrid bonds
–coupons paid — — — (58) — (58) — — (58)
–tax on coupons paid — — — 14 — 14 — — 14
Reclassification of equity in
respect of assets classified as
held-for-sale 27(d) — — (295) — 295 — — — —
Other movements — — — 22 — 22 — — 22
Balance at
31 December 2023 614 26,630 (894) 24,531 — 50,881 1,685 368 52,934
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
265
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
Continued
Attributable to owners of the parent
Share
premium,
capital Total
redemption In respect of attributable Perpetual Non-
Share and merger Other Retained assets held- to owners of hybrid controlling Total
capital reserves reserves earnings for-sale parent bonds interests equity
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2022 614 26,622 (6,032) 44,212 — 65,416 1,685 300 67,401
Total comprehensive income
for the year comprising: — — 8,521 6,849 — 15,370 — 183 15,553
Profit for the year — — — 6,666 — 6,666 — 180 6,846
Other comprehensive
income for the year — — 8,521 183 — 8,704 — 3 8,707
Other changes in equity
Cash flow hedges
reclassified and reported
in total assets — — (129) — — (129) — — (129)
Employee share options —
–value of employee services 28 — — — 81 — 81 — — 81
–proceeds from new
shares issued — 5 — — — 5 — — 5
–treasury shares used for
share option schemes — 1 — (1) — — — — —
Dividends and other
appropriations —
–ordinary shares 22(f) — — — (4,915) — (4,915) — — (4,915)
–to non-controlling interests — — — — — — — (141) (141)
Purchase of own shares —
–held in employee share
ownership trusts — — — (80) — (80) — — (80)
–share buy-back
programme 22(c)(vi) — — — (2,012) — (2,012) — — (2,012)
Perpetual hybrid bonds
–coupons paid — — — (59) — (59) — — (59)
–tax on coupons paid — — — 11 — 11 — — 11
Non-controlling interests -
acquisitions 27(c) — — — (1) — (1) — — (1)
Reclassification of equity in
respect of assets classified
as held-for-sale 27(d) — — 295 — (295) — — — —
Other movements — — — (4) — (4) — — (4)
Balance at 31 December
2022 614 26,628 2,655 44,081 (295) 73,683 1,685 342 75,710
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
266
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Balance Sheet
31 December
2024 2023
Notes £m £m
Assets
Intangible assets 12 94,276 95,562
Property, plant and equipment 13 4,379 4,583
Investments in associates and joint ventures 14 1,902 1,970
Retirement benefit assets 15 937 956
Deferred tax assets 16 2,573 911
Trade and other receivables 17 282 321
Investments held at fair value 18 146 118
Derivative financial instruments 19 110 109
Total non-current assets 104,605 104,530
Inventories 20 4,616 4,938
Income tax receivable 67 172
Trade and other receivables 17 3,604 3,621
Investments held at fair value 18 513 601
Derivative financial instruments 19 186 181
Cash and cash equivalents 21 5,297 4,659
14,283 14,172
Assets classified as held-for-sale 11 14
Total current assets 14,294 14,186
Total assets 118,899 118,716
Equity – capital and reserves
Share capital 22(a) 585 614
Share premium, capital redemption and merger reserves 22(b) 26,665 26,630
Other reserves 22(c) (902) (894)
Retained earnings 22(c) 21,610 24,531
Owners of the parent 47,958 50,881
Perpetual hybrid bonds 22(d) 1,685 1,685
Non-controlling interests 22(e) 352 368
Total equity 49,995 52,934
Liabilities
Borrowings 23 32,638 35,406
Retirement benefit liabilities 15 820 881
Deferred tax liabilities 16 11,679 12,192
Other provisions for liabilities 24 4,071 531
Trade and other payables 25 685 893
Derivative financial instruments 19 268 206
Total non-current liabilities 50,161 50,109
Borrowings 23 4,312 4,324
Income tax payable 1,681 992
Other provisions for liabilities 24 3,044 468
Trade and other payables 25 9,550 9,700
Derivative financial instruments 19 156 189
Total current liabilities 18,743 15,673
Total equity and liabilities 118,899 118,716
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
On behalf of the Board
Luc Jobin
Chair
12 February 2025
267
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Cash Flow Statement
For the years ended 31 December
2024 2023 2022
Notes £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year 3,181 (14,189) 6,846
Taxation on ordinary activities 357 (2,872) 2,478
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures (1,900) (585) (442)
Net finance costs 1,098 1,895 1,641
Profit/(loss) from operations 2,736 (15,751) 10,523
Adjustments for
– depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 4 3,101 28,614 1,305
– decrease/(increase) in inventories 35 265 (246)
– increase in trade and other receivables (269) (487) (42)
– decrease in Master Settlement Agreement payable 6 (294) (287) (145)
– increase in trade and other payables 58 640 3
– decrease in net retirement benefit liabilities (76) (111) (110)
– increase/(decrease) in other provisions for liabilities 6,322 (489) 643
– other non-cash items (40) 436 606
Cash generated from operating activities 11,573 12,830 12,537
Dividends received from associates 406 506 394
Tax paid (1,854) (2,622) (2,537)
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,125 10,714 10,394
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 187 145 85
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (486) (460) (523)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 145 54 31
Purchases of intangibles (122) (141) (133)
Proceeds on disposals of intangibles 39 27 3
Purchases of investments 18 (216) (448) (257)
Proceeds on disposals of investments 18 299 405 128
Investment in associates and acquisitions of other subsidiaries net of cash acquired (48) (37) (39)
Proceeds from disposal of shares in associate, net of tax 1,577 — —
Disposal of subsidiary, net of cash disposed of 27(d) — 159 —
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 1,375 (296) (705)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid on borrowings and financing related activities (1,703) (1,682) (1,578)
Interest element of lease liabilities (37) (30) (25)
Capital element of lease liabilities (165) (162) (161)
Proceeds from increases in and new borrowings 2,404 5,134 3,267
Reductions in and repayments of borrowings (4,826) (6,769) (3,044)
Outflows relating to derivative financial instruments (128) (480) (117)
Purchases of own shares - share buy-back programme 22(c) (698) — (2,012)
Purchases of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 22(c) (94) (110) (80)
Coupon paid on perpetual hybrid bonds (56) (59) (60)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (5,213) (5,055) (4,915)
Capital injection from and purchases of non-controlling interests 30 — — (1)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (121) (105) (158)
Other 5 4 6
Net cash used in financing activities (10,632) (9,314) (8,878)
Net cash flows generated from operating, investing and financing activities 868 1,104 811
Transferred from/(to) held-for-sale* — 368 (368)
Differences on exchange (281) (292) 431
Increase in net cash and cash equivalents in the year 587 1,180 874
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 4,517 3,337 2,463
Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 5,104 4,517 3,337
Note:
* Included in the transferred from held-for-sale in 2023 is £102 million of foreign exchange loss due to the devaluation of the Russian ruble, as explained in note 27(d)(i).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
268
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Notes on Accounts
1 Accounting policies The critical accounting judgements include:
Basis of preparation –the determination as to whether control (subsidiaries), joint
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in control (joint arrangements), or significant influence (associates)
accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards (IFRS) as issued by exists in relation to the investments held by the Group. This is
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and UK- assessed after taking into account the Group’s ability to appoint
adopted international accounting standards. UK-adopted Directors to the entity’s Board, its relative shareholding
international accounting standards differ in certain respects compared with other shareholders, any significant contracts or
from IFRS as issued by the IASB. The differences have no arrangements with the entity or its other shareholders and other
impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements for relevant facts and circumstances. The application of these
the periods presented. policies to Group subsidiaries in certain territories, including
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a Canada, is explained in note 32;
going concern basis under the historical cost convention except as –the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with
described in the accounting policy below on financial instruments. and translation of entities in territories where there are
In performing its going concern assessment, Management restrictions on free access to foreign currency, or multiple
considered forecasts and liquidity requirements covering a period exchange rates;
of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial
–the determination as to whether to recognise provisions and the
statements and including the Group’s ability to fund its operations
exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or
and generate cash to pay for debt as it falls due and takes into
other outstanding claims, as well as other contingent liabilities.
account the payments arising from the Master Settlement
Refer to note 24 for the provision associated with the Proposed
Agreement due in the U.S. in 2025, expected payments under the
Plans in Canada. The accounting policy on contingent liabilities,
Proposed Plans in Canada (refer to note 24) and other known
which are not provided for, is set out below and the contingent
liabilities or future payments (including interim dividends), as they
liabilities of the Group are explained in note 31. Judgement is
fall due. This assessment includes consideration of geopolitical
necessary to assess the likelihood that a pending claim is
events and the general outlook in the global economy, as well as
probable (more likely than not to succeed), possible or remote;
plausible downside scenarios after taking into account the Group’s
Principal Risks and how they could impact the Group’s operations. –the determination as to whether perpetual hybrid bonds should
Any mitigating actions, should they be required, are all within be classified as equity instead of borrowings (note 22(d)); and
management’s control and could include reductions in –the identification and quantification of adjusting items. These are
discretionary spending such as acquisitions and capital separately disclosed as memorandum information as explained
expenditure, or drawdowns on committed facilities. After reviewing below, and the impact of these on the calculation of adjusted
the Group’s annual budget, plans and financing arrangements, the earnings per share is described in note 11.
Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to
The critical accounting estimates include:
continue operating and that it is therefore appropriate to continue
–the review of intangible asset values, including goodwill and
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report
certain trademarks and similar intangibles. The key assumptions
and Form 20‑F.
used in respect of the impairment testing are the determination
In preparing the financial statements, Management has considered of cash-generating units, the budgeted and forecast cash flows
the impact of climate change, particularly in the context of the risks of these units, the long-term growth rate for cash flow
identified in the TCFD disclosure and determined that the impact is projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow
not expected to be material: projections. These are described in note 12;
–On the going concern and viability of the Group, over the next –the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation
three years; and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for
–On the Group’s assessment of future cash flows (including as liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may
related to the capital expenditure plans as related to the Group’s extend over several years and so the amount and/or timing may
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission reduction commitments) as used in differ from current assumptions. The accounting policy for
impairment assessments for the value in use of non-current taxation is explained below. The recognised deferred tax assets
assets including goodwill (note 12(b)); and and liabilities, together with a note of unrecognised amounts, are
shown in note 16, and a contingent tax asset is explained in note
–In respect of factors including useful lives and residual values
10(b). Other provisions for liabilities and charges are as set out in
that determine the carrying value of non-financial current assets.
note 24 including those in relation to Canada. Litigation related
There has been no material impact identified on the financial
deposits are shown in note 17. The application of these
reporting judgements and estimates. Management is aware that
accounting policies to the payments made and credits
the risks related to climate change are developing and ever
recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by Reynolds
changing. Accordingly, these judgements and estimates will be
American Inc. (Reynolds American) is described in note 6(b); and
kept under review as the future impacts of climate change on the
–the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
Group’s financial statements depend on environmental, regulatory
The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities,
and other factors outside of the Group’s control which are not all
as well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in
currently known.
other comprehensive income, involves judgements made in
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires conjunction with independent actuaries. These involve estimates
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the about uncertain future events on a country-by-country basis,
reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension
the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at
statements. The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the year-end. The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity
the accounting policies below, together with the related notes analyses are described in note 15.
to the accounts.
269
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical income statement, except when deferred in equity on
experience and various other factors that are believed to be intercompany net investment loans, on qualifying net investment
reasonable in the circumstances and constitute management’s hedges, or as qualifying cash flow hedges. Foreign exchange gains
best judgement at the date of the financial statements. In the or losses recognised in the income statement are included in profit
future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and from operations or net finance costs depending on the underlying
assumptions, which could affect the financial statements as the transactions that gave rise to these exchange differences.
original estimates and assumptions are modified, as appropriate, In addition, for hyperinflationary countries where the effect on the
in the year in which the circumstances change. Group results would be significant, the financial statements in local
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior to
issue by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2025. translation into sterling, in accordance with IAS 29 Financial
With effect from 1 January 2024, the Group has adopted the Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies. Where applicable, IAS 29
Amendments to IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements and IFRS 7 Financial requires all transactions to be indexed by an inflationary factor to
Instruments: Disclosures in respect of disclosures relating to the balance sheet date, potentially leading to a monetary gain or loss
Supplier Financing Arrangements. Applying these amendments on indexation. The results and balance sheets of operations in
impacted certain disclosures in the notes to the financial hyperinflationary territories are translated at the period end rate.
statements. In addition, Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
of Financial Statements have clarified certain aspects of the Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive
classification of liabilities as current or non-current. The impact obligation as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet
of these amendments was not material. date, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be
Basis of consolidation required to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be
The consolidated financial information includes the financial made of the amount of the obligation.
statements of British American Tobacco p.l.c. and its subsidiary Subsidiaries and associate companies are defendants in tobacco-
undertakings, collectively ‘the Group’, together with the Group’s related and other litigation. These exposures are regularly reviewed
share of the results of its associates and joint arrangements. on an on-going basis and provision for this litigation (including legal
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Non-controlling costs) is made at such time as an unfavourable outcome becomes
interests represent the share of earnings or equity in subsidiaries that probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to shareholders of the Group. Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in a business be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the
combination are measured at fair value at the date of acquiring entity and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of
control. Disposals of subsidiaries and businesses due to sale or income is virtually certain.
market withdrawal are accounted for as disposals from the date Where a provision has not been recognised, the Group records its
of losing control and may be classified as held-for-sale disposal external legal fees and other external defence costs for tobacco-
groups at the balance sheet date if specific tests under IFRS 5 related and other litigation as these costs are incurred.
Non-current Assets Held For Sale and Discontinued Operations
As explained in note 17, certain litigation-related deposits are
are met. Discontinued operations, where applicable, comprise
recognised as assets within loans and other receivables where
material disposal groups representing a significant geographical
management has determined that these payments represent a
area of operations or business activities.
resource controlled by the entity. These deposits are held at the
Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not fair value of consideration transferred less impairment, if applicable,
subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Group and have not been discounted.
exercises significant influence. They are accounted for using the
Taxation
equity method.
Tax is chargeable on the profits for the period, together with deferred
Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where tax. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax
two or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in
the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent. the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries, associates and joint
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The arrangements operate and generate taxable income.
Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income and
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been
expenses of joint operations.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and
Foreign currencies and hyperinflationary territories are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is
The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this realised or deferred tax liability is settled. A deferred tax asset is
is also the presentation currency of the Group. The income and recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
cash flow statements of Group undertakings expressed in profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
currencies other than sterling are translated to sterling using
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that
exchange rates applicable to the dates of the underlying transactions.
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or
Average rates of exchange in each year are used where the average
directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the statement of
rate approximates the relevant exchange rate at the date of the
other comprehensive income or the statement of changes in equity.
underlying transactions. Assets and liabilities of Group undertakings
are translated at the applicable rates of exchange at the end of The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of
each year. In territories where there are restrictions on free access taxes and the financial statements reflect the probable outcome
to foreign currency or multiple exchange rates, the applicable rates with estimated amounts determined based on the most likely
of exchange are regularly reviewed. amount or the expected value, depending on which method is
expected to better predict the resolution of the uncertainty.
The differences arising on the retranslation to sterling of Group
undertakings with functional currencies other than sterling are Equity instruments
presented as a separate component of equity in the Translation Instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity
reserve within Other reserves, as shown in note 22. They are in accordance with the substance of the contractual
recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on arrangements. Instruments that cannot be settled in the Group’s
disposal of a Group undertaking is recognised. own equity instruments and that include no contractual obligation
to deliver cash or another financial asset are classified as equity.
Transactional foreign exchange gains and losses on the revaluation
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the
or settlement of receivables and payables are recognised in the
proceeds received, net of issuance costs.
270
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Goodwill Leased assets and lease liabilities
Goodwill in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in The Group applies IFRS 16 Leases to contractual arrangements
intangible assets, net of impairment, where applicable. In respect which are, or contain, leases of assets. Right-of-use assets are
of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the included as part of property, plant and equipment in note 13, with
carrying value of the investment in the associated company or the lease liabilities included as part of borrowings in note 23. Right-
joint venture. of-use lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to
Intangible assets other than goodwill the lease liability, adjusted for initial direct costs in relation to the
assets, then depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and
The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist
their estimated useful lives. Lease liabilities are initially recognised
mainly of trademarks and similar intangibles, including certain
at an amount equal to the present value of estimated contractual
intellectual property, acquired by the Group’s subsidiary
lease payments at the inception of the lease, discounted using the
undertakings and computer software.
interest rate implicit in the lease if this can be readily determined,
Acquired trademarks and similar assets are carried at cost less
or the applicable incremental rate of borrowing, as appropriate.
accumulated amortisation and impairment. Trademarks with
The Group has adopted several practical expedients available
indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for
under the Standard including not applying the requirements of
impairment. Other trademarks and similar assets are amortised
IFRS 16 to leases of intangible assets, and not applying the
on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, consistent
recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS 16 to leases
with the pattern of economic benefits expected to be received,
of less than 12 months maximum duration or to leases of low-value
which previously did not exceed 20 years. With effect from
assets. Except for property-related leases, non-lease components
1 January 2024, the Group’s previously indefinite-lived combustible
have not been separated from lease components.
trademarks and similar assets are amortised on a straight-lined
basis over periods not exceeding 30 years. The revision in useful Impairment of non-financial assets
economic life reflects the ongoing challenging macro-economic Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate
conditions and revised forecasts in the U.S., with an expected that the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be
increase in amortisation expense of £1.4 billion per annum. In recoverable. In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are
addition, with effect from 1 January 2025, Camel Snus will be tested annually for impairment. An impairment loss is recognised
designated as a definite-lived intangible asset and amortised on a to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the
straight-line basis with a remaining useful economic life of 20 years, asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
increasing the annual amortisation charge for the Group’s brands A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets
and trademarks by £23 million. The Group's other non-combustible that generates cash flows which are largely independent of
trademarks will remain as indefinite-lived assets. Any impairments the cash flows from other assets or groups of assets. At the
of trademarks are recognised in the income statement, but acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant
increases in trademark values are not recognised. cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units expected
Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated to benefit from the acquisition for the purpose of impairment
amortisation and impairment, and, with the exception of global testing of goodwill.
software solutions, is amortised on a straight-line basis over Retirement benefit schemes
periods ranging from three years to five years. Global software
The Group's subsidiary undertakings operate various funded and
solutions are software assets designed to be implemented on a
unfunded defined benefit schemes, including pension and post-
global basis and used as a standard solution by all of the operating
retirement healthcare schemes, as well as defined contribution
companies in the Group. Historically, these assets were amortised
schemes in various jurisdictions.
on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 13 years. With
The liabilities arising in respect of defined benefit schemes are
effect from 1 January 2023, global software solutions are amortised
determined in accordance with the advice of independent,
on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 15 years. The
professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit
revision in useful life is a result of ongoing use of Global software
method. The net deficit or surplus for each defined benefit pension
solutions due to the extension of third-party supplier support.
scheme is calculated on the present value of the defined benefit
Property, plant and equipment
obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the
Purchased property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less scheme assets adjusted, where appropriate, for any surplus
accumulated depreciation and impairment. Depreciation is
restrictions or the effect of minimum funding requirements.
calculated on a straight-line basis to write off the assets over their
The costs of such plans are recognised in the Group income
useful economic life. Purchased freehold and leasehold property
statement within operating profit as part of employment costs.
are depreciated at rates between 2.0% and 4% per annum, and
Service costs are spread systematically over the expected service
plant and equipment at rates between 5% and 25% per annum.
lives of employees with past service costs or credits, the impact of
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified settlements and curtailments, and the net interest on the net
as held-for-sale. Non-current assets are classified as held-for sale defined benefit deficit or surplus recognised in the periods in which
if their carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale they arise. Actuarial gains and losses and surplus restrictions are
transaction rather than through continuing use and if all of the recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
conditions of IFRS 5 are met.
Benefits provided through defined contribution schemes are
charged as an expense in employment costs as payments fall due.
271
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Financial instruments Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised,
The Group’s business model for managing financial assets aims: and subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued
to protect against the loss of principal, to maximise Group liquidity interest receivable and payable where relevant. Changes in their
by concentrating cash at the centre, to align the maturity profile fair values are recognised as follows:
of external investments with that of the forecast liquidity profile, –for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the
to match the interest rate profile of external investments to that changes in their fair values are recognised directly in other
of debt maturities or fixings wherever practicable, and to optimise comprehensive income, to the extent that they are effective,
the investment yield within the Group’s investment parameters. with the ineffective portion being recognised in the income
The majority of financial assets are held in order to collect statement. Accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to
contractual cash flows (typically cash and cash equivalents and loans the income statement in the same periods as the hedged item,
and other receivables), but some assets (typically investments) unless the hedged item results in a non-financial asset where the
are held for investment potential. accumulated gains and losses are included in the initial carrying
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when value of the asset (basis adjustment);
the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the –for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the
relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value
to such provisions. changes attributable to the risk being hedged, with the
Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial corresponding entry being made in the income statement.
recognition in accordance with the Group’s business model as The changes in fair value of these derivatives are also recognised
investments, loans and receivables, or cash and cash equivalents in the income statement;
and accounted for as follows: –for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments
–Investments: these are non-derivative financial assets that in foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are
cannot be classified as loans and other receivables or cash recognised directly in other comprehensive income, to the
and cash equivalents. Dividend and interest income on these extent that they are effective, with the ineffective portion being
investments are included within finance income when the Group’s recognised in the income statement. Where non-derivatives
right to receive payments is established. This category includes such as foreign currency borrowings are designated as net
financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and financial investment hedges, the relevant exchange differences are
assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. similarly recognised. The accumulated gains and losses are
reclassified to the income statement when the foreign operation
–Loans and other receivables: these are non-derivative
is disposed of; and
financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal –for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are
amount outstanding, that are primarily held in order to not designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are
collect contractual cash flows. These balances are measured recognised in the income statement in the period in which
at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, they arise. These are referred to as ‘held-for-trading’.
and stated net of allowances for credit losses, and include In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to
trade and other receivables, and deposits with banks and demonstrate an assessment of the economic relationship between
other financial institutions which cannot be classified as the item being hedged and the hedging instrument, which shows
cash and cash equivalents. In addition, as explained in note that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. This
17, certain litigation related deposits are recognised as assets effectiveness testing is re-performed periodically to ensure that
within loans and other receivables where management has the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain, highly
determined that these payments represent a resource effective. Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging
controlled by the entity as a result of past events. These instrument is derecognised (e.g. through expiry or disposal), or no
deposits are held at the fair value of consideration transferred longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Where the hedged item is a
less impairment, if applicable, and have not been discounted. highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses
–Cash and cash equivalents: cash and cash equivalents include remain in equity until the transaction takes place, when they are
cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other reclassified to the income statement in the same manner as for
short-term highly liquid investments including investments in cash flow hedges as described above. When a hedged future
certain money market funds. transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and
losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income,
Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable
are immediately reclassified to the income statement.
market prices. If there is no active market for a financial asset, the
fair value is established by using valuation techniques principally Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement
involving discounted cash flow analysis. are either reflected in arriving at profit from operations
(if the hedged item is similarly reflected) or in finance costs.
Non-derivative financial liabilities, including borrowings and trade
payables, are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest Impairment of financial assets held at amortised cost
method. For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued Loss allowances for expected credit losses on financial assets
interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs. Drawdowns which are held at amortised cost are recognised on initial
and repayments of short-term borrowings which have a maturity recognition of the underlying asset. As permitted by IFRS 9
period of three months or less are stated net in the cash flow Financial Instruments, loss allowances on trade receivables arising
statement; drawdowns and repayments on all other borrowings from the recognition of revenue under IFRS 15 Revenue from
are stated gross in the cash flow statement. Current liabilities Contracts with Customers are initially measured at an amount
include amounts where the entity does not have an unconditional equal to lifetime expected losses. Allowances in respect of loans
right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after and other receivables are initially recognised at an amount equal
the balance sheet date. As shown in note 23, certain borrowings are to 12-month expected credit losses. Allowances are measured at
subject to fair value hedges, as defined below. an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses where
the credit risk on the receivables increases significantly after
initial recognition.
272
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Revenue –Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value
Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes, other tobacco at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date
products, and nicotine products, to external customers. Revenue of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over
excludes duty, excise and other taxes related to sales in the period the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of awards that
and is stated after deducting rebates, returns and other similar will eventually vest. For plans where vesting conditions are based
discounts and payments to direct and indirect customers. on total shareholder returns, the fair value at date of grant
reflects these conditions, whereas earnings per share vesting
For the vast majority of the Group’s sales, revenue is recognised
conditions are reflected in the calculation of awards that will
when control of the goods is transferred to a customer at a point
eventually vest over the vesting period.
in time; this is usually evidenced by a transfer of the significant
risks and rewards of ownership upon delivery to the customer, –For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the
which in terms of timing is not materially different to the date of portion of the services received is recognised at its current fair
shipping. For certain e-commerce subscription sales, revenue is value determined at each balance sheet date.
allocated to each component of the subscription, with revenue –Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option
recognised as each component is delivered to the customer. pricing model, except where vesting is dependent on market
These sales are not material to the Group’s results. conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
Inventories The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability,
Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
inventories and bringing them to their existing location and Research and development
condition, which will include raw materials, direct labour and Research expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the year
overheads, where appropriate. Net realisable value is the estimated in which it is incurred. Development expenditure is charged
selling price less costs to completion and sale. Tobacco inventories to profit or loss in the year it is incurred, unless it meets the
which have an operating cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets to be capitalised
as current assets, consistent with recognised industry practice. as an intangible asset.
Segmental analysis Capitalised interest
The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition,
geographic regions. These are the reportable segments for the construction or production of intangible assets or property, plant
Group as they form the focus of the Group’s internal reporting and equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready
systems and are the basis used by the chief operating decision for its intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of
maker, identified as the Management Board, for assessing the asset.
performance and allocating resources. While the Group has clearly
Biological Assets
differentiated brands, global segmentation between a wide
portfolio of brands is not part of the regular internally reported The investments in associates and joint ventures shown
financial information. The results of New Category products are in the Group balance sheet include biological assets held by
reported as part of the results of each geographic region. Organigram Holdings Inc. In accordance with IAS 41 Agriculture, the
Group measures biological assets at fair value less costs to sell up
Adjusting items
to the point of harvest, at which point this becomes the basis for
Adjusting items are significant items of income or expense in
the cost of finished goods inventories after harvest with
revenue, profit from operations, net finance costs, taxation and
subsequent expenditures incurred on these being capitalised,
the Group’s share of the post-tax results of associates and joint
where applicable, in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories. Unrealised
ventures which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are
fair value gains and losses arising during the growth of biological
relevant to an understanding of the Group’s underlying financial
assets are recognised immediately in the income statement.
performance because of their size, nature or incidence. In
Dividends
identifying and quantifying adjusting items, the Group consistently
applies a policy that defines criteria that are required to be met for The Company pays interim quarterly dividends, and the Group
an item to be classified as adjusting. These items are separately recognises the interim dividend in the period in which it is paid.
disclosed in the segmental analyses or in the notes to the Repurchase of share capital
accounts as appropriate. When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration
The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a
financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying deduction from equity. Repurchased shares which are not
business performance and are used to derive the Group’s principal cancelled, or shares purchased for the employee share ownership
non-GAAP measures of Smokeless revenue, adjusted profit from trusts, are classified as treasury shares and presented as a
operations, adjusted operating margin and adjusted diluted deduction from total equity.
earnings per share, all of which are before the impact of adjusting Future changes to accounting policies
items and which are reconciled from revenue, profit from Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the Group financial
operations and diluted earnings per share. statements in future years, but are not expected to have a material
Other accounting policies: effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in the
Share-based payments financial statements.
–The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based The replacement to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements,
compensation plans. which is expected to change certain aspects of the Group’s reporting
of the profit and loss account, balance sheet, cash flow statement,
and certain notes to the accounts, was published by the IASB on
9 April 2024 as IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial
Statements. Subject to endorsement by the UK Endorsement
Board (UKEB), the requirements of IFRS 18 will be implemented
with effect from 1 January 2027, with retrospective application.
273
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
2 Segmental analyses
The chief operating decision maker, the Management Board, reviews adjusted profit from operations at constant currencies to
evaluate segment performance and allocate resources to the overall business on a geographic region basis, including the results of
New Categories (comprising Vapour products, Heated Products and Modern Oral products), which are reported to the Management
Board as part of the results of each geographic region. The Management Board also reviews, at constant currencies, revenues on a
geographic region basis, which are included within adjusted profit from operations.
The Group is organised into three geographic regions as follows:
–Americas and Europe (AME), comprising markets operating in Europe, Latin America and Canada;
–Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) comprising markets operating in Asia-Pacific, Middle East, Central Asia, Caucasus and
Africa, as well as in Mongolia; and
–the U.S.
The three geographic regions are the reportable segments for the Group as they form the focus of the Group’s internal reporting
systems and are the basis used by the Management Board for assessing performance and allocating resources. Transactions between
Group subsidiaries are conducted on arm’s length terms in accordance with appropriate transfer pricing rules and Organisation for
Economic Cooperation & Development (OECD) principles. Net finance costs (comprising interest income and interest expense), share
of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures and taxation are centrally managed, and accordingly, such items are not presented
by segment as they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability.
Regional Directors are responsible for delivering the operating and financial results of their Region inclusive of all product categories.
Therefore, the results of New Categories (comprising Vapour products, Heated Products and Modern Oral products) are reported to
the Management Board as part of the results of each geographic region.
However, additional information has been provided to disaggregate revenue based on product category to enable investors to better
compare the Group’s business performance across periods and by reference to the Group’s investment activity.
In respect of the U.S. region, all financial statements and financial information provided by or with respect to the U.S. business or
Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) (and/or RAI and its subsidiaries (collectively, the ‘Reynolds Group’)) are prepared on the basis of U.S. GAAP
and constitute the primary financial statements or financial information of the U.S. business or RAI (and/or the Reynolds Group). Solely for
the purpose of consolidation within the results of BAT p.l.c. and the BAT Group, this financial information is then converted to IFRS. To
the extent any such financial information provided in these financial statements relates to the U.S. business or RAI (and/or the Reynolds
Group), it is provided as an explanation of the U.S. business’s or RAI’s (and/or the Reynolds Group’s) primary U.S. GAAP based financial
statements and information.
The following table shows 2024 revenue at 2024 rates of exchange, and 2024 revenue translated using 2023 rates of exchange. The 2023
figures are stated at the 2023 rates of exchange.
2024 2023
Revenue Revenue Revenue
constant Translation current current
rates exchange rates rates
£m £m £m £m
U.S. 11,592 (314) 11,278 11,994
AME 9,764 (523) 9,241 9,791
APMEA 5,795 (447) 5,348 5,498
Revenue 27,151 (1,284) 25,867 27,283
274
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The following table shows 2023 revenue at 2023 rates of exchange, and 2023 revenue translated using 2022 rates of exchange. The 2022
figures are stated at the 2022 rates of exchange.
2023 2022
Revenue Revenue Revenue
constant Translation current current
rates exchange rates rates
£m £m £m £m
U.S. 12,065 (71) 11,994 12,639
AME 9,989 (198) 9,791 9,287
APMEA 6,042 (544) 5,498 5,729
Revenue 28,096 (813) 27,283 27,655
The following table shows 2024 profit/(loss) from operations and adjusted profit from operations at 2024 rates of exchange, and 2024
adjusted profit from operations using 2023 rates of exchange.
2024
Adjusted* Adjusted*
segment segment Segment
result result result
constant Translation current Adjusting* current
rates exchange rates items rates
£m £m £m £m £m
U.S. 6,580 (194) 6,386 (2,299) 4,087
AME 3,512 (192) 3,320 (6,784) (3,464)
APMEA 2,347 (163) 2,184 (71) 2,113
Profit from operations 12,439 (549) 11,890 (9,154) 2,736
Net finance costs (1,098)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,900
Profit before taxation 3,538
Taxation on ordinary activities (357)
Profit for the year 3,181
Note:
* The adjustments to profit from operations are explained in notes 4, 5(c) 6(c), 6(d), 6(g), 6(h) and 6(k).
The following table shows 2023 loss from operations and adjusted profit from operations at 2023 rates of exchange, and 2023 adjusted
profit from operations using 2022 rates of exchange.
2023
Adjusted*
segment Adjusted*
result segment Segment
constant Translation result current Adjusting* result current
rates exchange rates items rates
£m £m £m £m £m
U.S. 6,863 (42) 6,821 (27,602) (20,781)
AME 3,547 (87) 3,460 (266) 3,194
APMEA 2,379 (195) 2,184 (348) 1,836
Profit/(loss) from operations 12,789 (324) 12,465 (28,216) (15,751)
Net finance costs (1,895)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 585
Loss before taxation (17,061)
Taxation on ordinary activities 2,872
Loss for the year (14,189)
Note:
* The adjustments to profit from operations are explained in notes 3, 4, 5(b), 6(d), 6(f), 6(h), 6(j), 6(k) and 7.
275
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The following table shows 2022 profit from operations and adjusted profit from operations at the 2022 rates of exchange.
2022
Adjusted*
segment Adjusting* Segment
result items result
£m £m £m
U.S. 6,835 (630) 6,205
AME 3,348 (422) 2,926
APMEA 2,225 (833) 1,392
Profit from operations 12,408 (1,885) 10,523
Net finance costs (1,641)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 442
Profit before taxation 9,324
Taxation on ordinary activities (2,478)
Profit for the year 6,846
Note:
* The adjustments to profit from operations are explained in notes 3, 4, 5(b), 6(d), 6(f), 6(h), 6(i), 6(j), 6(k) and 7.
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges
Adjusted profit from operations at constant rates of exchange of £12,439 million (2023 at constant rates: £12,789 million; 2022 at current
rates: £12,408 million) excludes adjusting depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges as explained in note 4. These are excluded
from segmental adjusted profit from operations as per table below. 2024 and 2023 are disclosed at constant rates of exchange and 2022
is disclosed at current rate of exchange.
2024
Adjusted
depreciation, Adjusted
amortisation depreciation, Depreciation,
and amortisation amortisation
impairment and and
constant Translation impairment Adjusting impairment
rates exchange current rates items current rates
£m £m £m £m £m
U.S. 210 (4) 206 2,284 2,490
AME 291 (12) 279 123 402
APMEA 160 (11) 149 60 209
661 (27) 634 2,467 3,101
2023
Adjusted
depreciation, Adjusted
amortisation depreciation, Depreciation,
and amortisation amortisation
impairment and and
constant Translation impairment Adjusting impairment
rates exchange current rates items current rates
£m £m £m £m £m
U.S. 218 — 218 27,518 27,736
AME 333 3 336 44 380
APMEA 218 (13) 205 293 498
769 (10) 759 27,855 28,614
2022
Adjusted
depreciation, Depreciation,
amortisation amortisation
and Adjusting and
impairment items impairment
£m £m £m
U.S. 237 322 559
AME 373 116 489
APMEA 190 67 257
800 505 1,305
276
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional information by product category
Although the Group’s operations are managed on a Regional basis, additional information for revenue is provided based on product
category as follows:
2024 2023 2022
Revenue £m £m £m
New Categories 3,432 3,347 2,894
Vapour 1,721 1,812 1,436
HP 921 996 1,060
Modern Oral 790 539 398
Traditional Oral 1,092 1,163 1,209
Combustibles 20,685 22,108 23,030
Other 658 665 522
Revenue 25,867 27,283 27,655
External revenue and non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets are analysed
between the UK and all foreign countries at current rates of exchange as follows:
United Kingdom All foreign countries Group
2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022
Revenue is based on location of sale £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
External revenue 254 255 228 25,613 27,028 27,427 25,867 27,283 27,655
United Kingdom All foreign countries Group
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets 417 447 93,859 95,115 94,276 95,562
Property, plant and equipment 265 362 4,114 4,221 4,379 4,583
Investments in associates and joint ventures — — 1,902 1,970 1,902 1,970
The consolidated results of the Reynolds Group operating in the U.S. met the criteria for separate disclosure under the requirements
of IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Revenue arising from the operations of the Reynolds Group, inclusive of the sales made to fellow Group
companies, in 2024, 2023 and 2022 was £11,302 million, £11,985 million and £12,635 million, respectively. The majority of sales are to
customers based in the U.S. Non-current assets attributable to the operations of the Reynolds Group were £85,843 million
(2023: £86,598 million).
The main acquisitions comprising the goodwill balance of £41,129 million (2023: £41,091 million), included in intangible assets, are provided
in note 12. Included in investments in associates and joint ventures are amounts of £1,762 million (2023: £1,851 million) attributable to the
investment in ITC Ltd. Further information is provided in notes 9 and 14.
3 Employee benefit costs
2024 2023 2022
Note £m £m £m
Wages and salaries 2,424 2,263 2,553
Social security costs 218 219 201
Other pension and retirement benefit costs 15 115 108 133
Share-based payments - equity and cash-settled 28 74 74 85
2,831 2,664 2,972
In 2023 and 2022, included within employee benefits costs is a credit of £26 million and a charge of £315 million, respectively, in relation
to the Group’s restructuring and integration initiatives, as explained in note 7.
In 2022, a partial buy-out was concluded in the U.S. with approximately US$1.6 billion (£1.3 billion) of plan liabilities being removed from
the balance sheet, resulting in a settlement gain of £16 million, which was reported in the income statement, and recognised as an
adjusting item.
4 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Intangibles – amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles 2,298 23,232 317
– amortisation and impairment of computer software 129 125 142
– impairment of goodwill 39 4,614 —
Property, plant and equipment - depreciation and impairment 635 643 846
3,101 28,614 1,305
Enumerated below are movements in costs that have impacted depreciation, amortisation and impairment in 2024, 2023 and 2022.
These include changes in the Group's underlying business performance, as well as impact of adjusting items, as defined in note 1.
277
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Intangibles – amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles
Acquisitions have resulted in the capitalisation of trademarks and similar intangibles, including those which are amortised over their
expected useful lives, which do not exceed 30 years. As mentioned in note 12, the amortisation and impairment of these acquired
trademarks and similar intangibles are charged to the income statement of which the adjusting element is £2,279 million (2023: £23,202
million; 2022: £288 million). In 2022, included under amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles is a £3 million gain
related to a trademark disposal, which has been treated as adjusting.
Impairment of goodwill
The impairment of goodwill is charged to the income statement as adjusting.
During 2024, the Group impaired £39 million of goodwill in Malaysia, as explained in note 12(e)(v).
During 2023, the Group impaired £4,614 million of goodwill in the U.S., South Africa and Peru, as explained in notes 12(e)(v) and 12(e)(vi).
During 2022, the Group made no impairments of goodwill.
Property, plant and equipment – depreciation and impairment
The following items are included within depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment:
–In 2024, an impairment charge of £149 million of fixed assets in respect of the Group's head office in London and the Group's intention
to seek an orderly exit from Cuba. This has been treated as an adjusting item.
–In 2023 and 2022, restructuring and integration related depreciation and impairment costs were a net charge of £39 million and
£220 million, respectively. In 2023, it included an impairment of £46 million for machinery in Reynolds American Companies due to the
adverse impact from macro-economic headwinds and industry volume declines in the U.S, as explained in note 12(e)(vi). This was
partially offset by depreciation and impairment costs and reversals resulting from obsolete machines in relation to downsizing and
factory rationalisation. These were treated as adjusting, as mentioned in note 7; and
–Gains and losses recognised on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
5 Other operating income
Other operating income of £340 million (2023: £432 million; 2022: £722 million) comprises income that is associated with the Group’s
normal activities, but which falls outside the definition of revenue and includes gains on one-off transactions, such as capital profits
arising from the disposals of fixed assets, recoveries of indirect taxation and levies paid, litigation settlement received and transfers of
trademark rights.
(a) Sale and leaseback
In 2024, the Group recognised £34 million of gains arising from sale and leaseback transactions on excess offices and warehousing
capacity in Singapore and Nigeria. Consideration received for the Nigeria transaction included an investment in a property management
vehicle, Rising Sun Partners LP, as mentioned in note 18.
In 2023, the Group recognised £15 million of gains arising from a sale and leaseback transaction on excess warehousing capacity
in Argentina.
(b) Brazil tax matters
In 2023, in Brazil, £150 million of income was recognised in respect of excise on social contributions, as well as £19 million
(2022: £472 million) in respect of historical VAT on social contributions in Brazil. In 2023 and 2022, such recognised income has been
treated as an adjusting item.
In addition, in 2022, £78 million of the contingent asset in respect of historical VAT on social contributions claims was sold to financial
institutions for £38 million.
(c) Other
In 2024, a credit of £132 million has been recognised in respect of the settlement of historical litigation related to the Fox River in the U.S.
This has been treated as an adjusting item.
In addition, in 2024, £28 million (2023: £85 million; 2022: £27 million) of income has been recognised in respect of the transfer of non-
strategic trademark rights, which had not previously been capitalised, to third parties.
278
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
6 Other operating expenses
(a) Items included within other operating expenses
The following items are included within other operating expenses:
2024 2023 2022
Notes £m £m £m
Other operating expenses 13,093 7,538 9,018
The following items are included within other operating expenses:
Master Settlement Agreement and State Settlement Agreements 6(b),(d) 1,689 2,023 2,387
Proposed Plans in Canada* 6(c) 6,203 — —
Inventory write-offs 20 134 250 250
Research and development expenses (excluding employee benefit costs
and depreciation) 6(e) 174 181 138
Loss/(gain) on disposal of businesses* 6(f) — 546 (6)
Partial disposal of shares in ITC* 6(g) 6 — —
Charges in respect of DOJ and OFAC investigation* 6(h) 4 75 450
(Reversals)/charges in respect of assets held-for-sale* 6(j) — (195) 612
Charges in respect of Nigerian FCCPC case* 6(i) — — 79
Romania and Brazil other taxes* 6(k) 449 49 12
Marketing costs in operating expenses 6(l) 1,111 1,152 1,160
Exchange differences 11 17 92
Hedge ineffectiveness within operating profit 5 (12) 36
Expenses relating to short-term leases 8 13 11
Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets 1 1 1
Auditor’s remuneration 6(m) 30 29 29
Note:
* Recognised and reported as an adjusting item. In addition to these captions, as set out in note 6(d), some litigation costs are treated as adjusting items.
Sustainability costs are included in other operating expenses and reported in a separate note, refer to note 33 for further information.
(b) Master Settlement Agreement and State Settlement Agreements
In 1998, the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers (including the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Lorillard and Brown & Williamson,
businesses which are now part of the Reynolds Group) entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) with attorneys general
representing most U.S. states and territories. The MSA imposes a perpetual stream of future payment obligations on the major U.S.
cigarette manufacturers. The amounts of money that the participating manufacturers are required to annually contribute are based upon,
amongst other things, the volume of cigarettes sold and market share (based on cigarette shipments in that year). The MSA has been
subject to certain adjustments since 1998, including agreements related to the Non-Participating Manufacturer (NPM) adjustment under
the MSA reached with various U.S. states between 2012 and 2023.
The amounts payable by Group companies under the arrangement accrue as and when shipments of tobacco products are made.
Adjustments to amounts due in relation to past payments are typically received in the form of credits offsettable only against current
or future performance obligations. Unless credits have been realised by way of cash refund or by offset against liabilities due, they are
treated as contingent assets until realised. Credits in respect of future years’ payments and the NPM adjustment claims would be
accounted for in the applicable year and will not be treated as adjusting items. Only credits in respect of prior year payments are included
as adjusting items.
The charge in each reporting period and the cashflow impact in the same period are not directly related, as the MSA is generally settled
once a year in April of the following year.
279
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The BAT Group is subject to substantial payment obligations under the MSA and the state settlement agreements with the States of
Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (such settlement agreements, collectively State Settlement Agreements). Reynolds Group’s
operating subsidiaries’ expenses and payments under the MSA and the State Settlement Agreements for 2024 amounted to
US$2,160 million (2023: US$2,516 million; 2022: US$2,951 million) in respect of settlement expenses and US$2,535 million (2023:
US$2,874 million; 2022: US$3,129 million) in respect of settlement cash payments.
2024 2023 2022
Note US$m £m US$m £m US$m £m
Opening MSA liability 25 2,279 1,788 2,637 2,193 2,815 2,079
Settlement expense 31 2,160 1,689 2,516 2,023 2,951 2,387
Cash paid 31 (2,535) (1,983) (2,874) (2,311) (3,129) (2,531)
Difference on exchange — 26 — (117) — 258
Closing MSA liability 25 1,904 1,520 2,279 1,788 2,637 2,193
Non-Participating Manufacturer adjustments
During 2012, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company (SFNTC), various other tobacco manufacturers,
17 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico reached an agreement related to the Non-Participating Manufacturer (NPM)
adjustment under the MSA, and three more states joined the agreement in 2013. Under this agreement, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
has received credits of more than US$1 billion, in respect of its Non-Participating Manufacturer (NPM) Adjustment claims related to the
period from 2003 to 2012. These credits have been applied against the companies’ MSA payments over a period of five years from 2013,
subject to, and dependent upon, meeting the various ongoing performance obligations. During 2014, two additional states agreed to settle
NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2003 to 2012. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company has received US$170 million in credits, which
has been applied over a five-year period from 2014. During 2015, another state agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the
period 2004 to 2014 and included a method to determine future adjustments from 2015 forward. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company has
received US$285 million in credits, which was applied over a four-year period from 2016. During 2016, no additional states agreed to settle
NPM disputes. During 2017, two more states agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2014. R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company has received US$61 million in credits through the 2020 fiscal year. During 2018, nine more states agreed to settle NPM
disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2019, with an option through 2022, subject to certain conditions. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company has received US$189 million in credits for settled periods through 2017. Also, in 2018, one additional state agreed to settle NPM
disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2024, subject to certain conditions. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company has received
US$213 million in credits for settled periods through 2018. In the first quarter of 2020, certain conditions set forth in the 2017 and 2018
agreements were met for those 10 states. In 2022, an additional state settled NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2005 to 2028.
It is estimated that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive a credit of US$130 million for settled periods through 2018, which will be
applied over a five-year period from 2022. In 2023, an additional state settled NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2005 to 2029.
It is estimated that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive a credit of US$29 million for settled periods through 2018, which will be
applied over a five-year period from 2024. In the first quarter of 2024, an additional state settled NPM disputes related to claims for the
period 2005 to 2031. It is estimated that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive a credit of US$11 million for settled periods through
2018, which will be applied over a five-year period from 2024. In the third quarter of 2024, an additional state settled NPM disputes related
to claims for the period 2005 to 2011. It is estimated that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive a credit of US$69 million for settled
periods through 2011, which will be applied over a five-year period from 2026.
State Settlement Agreements
In 2020, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company recognised additional expenses under the state settlement agreements in the States
of Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company recognised US$241 million of expense for payment
obligations to the State of Florida for the ITG Brands, LLC acquired brands from the date of divestiture, June 12, 2015, as a result of
an unfavourable judgment. In addition, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company recognised US$264 million related to the resolution of claims
against it in the States of Texas, Minnesota and Mississippi for payment obligations to those states for the ITG Brands, LLC acquired
brands from the date of divestiture. Finally, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company settled certain related claims with Phillip Morris USA
under the state settlement agreements in the states of Mississippi, Texas and Minnesota for US$8 million. During 2021, an additional
US$17 million expense was recognised in relation to the final resolution of the Texas and Minnesota claims. Additional information related
to the resolution of these claims is included in note 31. In 2022, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company recognised US$37 million in additional
expenses related to a settlement with Philip Morris USA resolving prior operating profit disputes under the MSA related to the ITG
Brands, LLC acquired brands.
(c) Proposed Plans in Canada
In March 2019, Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited and Imperial Tobacco Company Limited (together, ITCAN), Group subsidiaries, obtained
creditor protection under the Canadian Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (CCAA). Under a confidential court supervised mediation
process, ITCAN has since been negotiating a possible settlement of all of its outstanding tobacco litigation in Canada while continuing to
run its business in the normal course.
On 17 October 2024, ITCAN’s court-appointed mediator and monitor filed a proposed plan of compromise and arrangement in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice. Substantially similar proposed plans were also filed for Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. (a subsidiary
of Philip Morris International Inc.) and JTI-Macdonald Corp. (a subsidiary of Japan Tobacco International) (collectively, the Proposed
Plans).
On 31 October 2024, the court granted certain orders pursuant to which the Proposed Plans were accepted for filing. On 12 December
2024, the Proposed Plans were approved by the requisite majorities of the creditors.
Under the Proposed Plans, if ultimately sanctioned and implemented, ITCAN, Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. and JTI-Macdonald Corp.
would collectively pay an aggregate settlement amount of CAD$32.5 billion (£18.0 billion).
If the Proposed Plans to settle all outstanding and future Canadian tobacco litigation are sanctioned and implemented, ITCAN is required
to pay an upfront amount into the settlement fund as explained in note 24. In addition, ITCAN is required to make annual payments based
on a percentage of net income after tax generated from all sources, excluding New Categories, until the aggregate settlement amount is
paid (see note 24).
280
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
A provision of £6,203 million has been recognised in 2024 in relation to the above liabilities. The charge has been included in other
operating expenses and treated as an adjusting item in 2024.
(d) Litigation costs
Included in other operating expenses and reported in various accounts based on the nature of the expense are costs that are collectively
analysed as litigation costs. Certain litigation costs are reported as adjusting items and predominantly relate to health-related claims,
including Engle progeny. These litigation costs were £157 million (2023: £96 million; 2022: £170 million). Included in 2024 is a NPM credit of
£2 million recognised for the settlement with the state of Idaho and a credit of £18 million related to the Washington portion of the 2004
NPM adjustment award.
In 2023, an NPM credit of £6 million was recognised for the settlement with the state of Iowa.
In 2022, the Group received £26 million of NPM credits related to a favourable resolution in respect of MSA litigation in the state of Illinois.
(e) Research and development
Total research and development costs, including employee benefit costs and depreciation, are £380 million (2023: £408 million;
2022: £323 million).
(f) Loss on disposal of businesses
BAT Russia
On 13 September 2023, the Group disposed of its Russian and Belarusian businesses in compliance with international and local laws. The
Group had two subsidiaries in Russia ("BAT Russia"), being JSC British American Tobacco-SPb and JSC 'International Tobacco Marketing
Services', and one subsidiary in Belarus, International Tobacco Marketing Services BY. As explained in note 27(d)(i), net held-for-sale
assets of £770 million were disposed of for proceeds of £425 million, with an impairment charge of £345 million recorded at that time.
As discussed in note 6(j), the impairment charge recognised in 2022 of £554 million (net of £14 million utilised during the year) was
reversed and offset by the above mentioned £345 million recorded at the date of sale, with a net reversal of impairment recognised of
£195 million.
The loss on disposal of businesses included within other operating expenses and recognised as an adjusting item in 2023 was a charge of
£548 million and included £554 million of foreign exchange reclassified from other comprehensive income (note 22(c)(i)) and associated
costs of £3 million partially offset by a realised foreign exchange gain on the proceeds received of £9 million.
The total net impact after the partial reversal and loss on disposal recognised in 2023 was therefore £353 million.
BAT Pars
On 6 August 2021, the Group disposed of its Iranian subsidiary, B.A.T. Pars Company PJSC (BAT Pars). In 2022, as a result of the unwind of
discounting on the deferred proceeds and a true-up on the completion of accounts, a credit of £6 million was recognised within other
operating expenses as an adjusting item. In 2023, a credit of £2 million arising from the revaluation of the receivable was recognised within
other operating expenses as an adjusting item.
As explained in note 17, the value of the consideration for the sale remains outstanding at 31 December 2024, and £57 million (2023:
£56 million) is recognised as a current receivable. Given the ongoing political situation, heightened sanctions and other uncertainties
coupled with the passage of time the receivable has been outstanding, the Group recognised an expected credit loss within other
operating expenses of £28 million as at 31 December 2023.
(g) Partial disposal of shares in ITC
On 13 March 2024, the Group announced the divestment of 12% of its equity stake in ITC Limited (ITC). Income and expenses associated
with the divestment of these shares have been recognised as adjusting items within the relevant financial statement caption. Included
within other operating expenses is £6 million of foreign exchange losses arising from the conversion of the net proceeds from Indian
rupee to sterling which were repatriated to the UK in a series of foreign exchange transactions in the days following the sale. Refer to
note 27(b)(i) for further details.
(h) Charges in respect of DOJ and OFAC investigations
On 25 April 2023, the Group announced that it had reached an agreement with the DOJ and OFAC to resolve previously disclosed
investigations into suspicions of sanctions breaches. These concerned business activities relating to the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea between 2007 and 2017. The Company entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) with the DOJ and a civil
settlement agreement with OFAC. The DOJ’s charges against the Company − one count of conspiring to commit bank fraud and one
count of conspiring to violate sanctions laws − were filed and will later be dismissed if the Company abides by the terms of the DPA.
In addition, a BAT subsidiary in Singapore, British-American Tobacco Marketing (Singapore) Private Limited, pleaded guilty to the same
charges. The total amount payable to the U.S. authorities was US$635 million plus interest.
Having recognised an initial provision of £450 million (US$540 million) in 2022, the Group recognised additional charges of £75 million in
2023 and £4 million in 2024. Refer to notes 24 and 25 for further details. All charges were included within other operating expenses and
recognised as adjusting items.
(i) Charges in respect of Nigerian FCCPC case
In 2022, a charge of £79 million was recognised within other operating expenses, and treated as an adjusting item, relating to the conclusion
of the investigation into alleged violations of the Nigerian Competition and Consumer Protection Act and National Tobacco Control Act.
281
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
(j) Reversals/charges in respect of assets held-for-sale
On 11 March 2022, the Group announced the intention to transfer its Russian business in full compliance with international and local laws.
At that time, the Group had two subsidiaries in Russia (BAT Russia), being JSC British American Tobacco-SPb and JSC International
Tobacco Marketing Services. In September 2023, the Group formally entered into an agreement to sell the Group's Russian and Belarusian
businesses to a consortium led by then members of BAT Russia’s Management team, in compliance with local and international laws. As
previously announced, due to operational dependencies between BAT Russia and the Group’s subsidiary in Belarus (International Tobacco
Marketing Services BY) (BAT Belarus), the Belarusian business was included in the sale. The transaction was completed on 13 September
2023 and, since completion, the buyer consortium has wholly owned both businesses. These businesses are now known as the ITMS Group.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held For Sale and Discontinued Operations, the assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries
were classified as held-for-sale at 31 December 2022 and presented as such on the balance sheet at an estimated fair value less costs to
sell. An impairment charge of £554 million (and associated costs of £58 million) was recognised in other operating expenses as adjusting
items in 2022. During 2023, the previously recognised impairment was reversed (net of £14 million impairment utilised), offset by the net
£345 million (being the impairment arising on disposal of £770 million net assets for sales proceeds of £425 million). This resulted in a net
partial reversal of £195 million. This has been treated as a non-cash adjusting item. Further information on the sale of the Russian and
Belarusian businesses can be found in note 6(f) and note 27(d)(i).
(k) Romania and Brazil other taxes
BAT Romania
On 5 November 2024, British-American Tobacco (Romania) Investment S.R.L. (BATRI) was issued with a final assessment by the Romanian
tax authority in respect of an excise audit of activities undertaken in the Ploiesti factory during the period January 2017 to February 2023.
On 12 November 2024, BATRI paid the assessed amount under the provisions of Ordinance 107/2024, which provides for cancellation of
past and ongoing penalties, interest, and surcharges (ancillary obligations) if the principal amount is paid in full. The ancillary obligations have
been duly cancelled. BATRI has filed an administrative appeal with the Romanian Tax Authority in respect of the findings of the audit, with
a decision expected in the second half of 2025 and, if unsuccessful, the Group will consider further judicial appeal.
The Group has recognised a charge of £449 million in other operating expenses as an adjusting item, of which £390 million was paid in 2024
and a provision recognised for the remainder. Refer to note 24.
BAT Brazil
Since 2017, Souza Cruz LTDA (BAT Brazil) has been involved in a legal case over whether a 10% tax imposed on a tax benefit associated
with investment grants by the Rio de Janeiro State was constitutional. In October 2023, the Supreme Court concluded on the leading
case’s trial, recognising that the tax was constitutional. This decision has binding effects on all taxpayers. BAT Brazil’s individual lawsuit
has not yet concluded. However, given the decision in the leading case, in 2023, £47 million was recognised in other operating expenses,
as an adjusting item, to reflect the probability of an unfavourable decision. Out of the £47 million, £40 million was reported as provisions
(note 24) and £7 million was reported as trade and other payables.
In addition, in 2023, a charge of £2 million has been recognised in other operating expenses, as an adjusting item, in respect of social
contributions relating to the Brazil excise case, as mentioned in note 5(b). In 2022, a charge of £12 million was recognised in other
operating expenses, as an adjusting item, in respect of social contributions related to the Brazil VAT case, as mentioned in note 5(b).
(l) Marketing costs in operating expenses
Certain marketing activities, such as discounts or allowances provided to customers, are required to be deducted from revenue as
explained in note 1. Other marketing expenses, such as point of sale and promotional materials, media advertising and sponsorship,
and consumer research, are reported as operating expenses and have been shown in the table above.
282
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
(m) Auditor's remuneration
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Auditor’s remuneration
Total expense for audit services pursuant to legislation:
–fees to KPMG LLP for Parent Company and Group audit 12.0 11.4 9.4
–fees to KPMG LLP firms and associates for local statutory and Group
9.6 9.4 11.0
reporting audits
Total audit fees expense - KPMG LLP firms and associates 21.6 20.8 20.4
Audit fees expense to other firms 0.1 0.2 0.2
Total audit fees expense 21.7 21.0 20.6
Fees to KPMG LLP firms and associates for other services:
–audit-related assurance services 6.8 6.9 7.1
–other assurance services 0.7 0.9 0.9
–tax advisory services — — —
–tax compliance — — —
–audit of defined benefit schemes of the Company 0.3 0.2 0.2
–other non-audit services — — —
7.8 8.0 8.2
The total auditor’s remuneration to KPMG firms and associates included above are £29.4 million (2023: £28.8 million; 2022: £28.6 million).
Under SEC regulations, the remuneration to KPMG firms and associates of £29.4 million in 2024 (2023: £28.8 million; 2022: £28.6 million)
is required to be presented as follows: audit fees £28.4 million (2023: £27.7 million; 2022: £27.5 million), audit-related fees £0.3 million
(2023: £0.2 million; 2022: £0.2 million), tax fees £nil million (2023: £nil million; 2022: £nil million) and all other fees £0.7 million
(2023: £0.9 million; 2022: £0.9 million). Audit-related fees are in respect of services provided to associated pension schemes. All other fees
are in respect of other assurance services, including those provided over information derived from the financial information systems
subject to audit.
7 Restructuring and integration costs
Restructuring costs reflect the costs incurred as a result of initiatives to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of the Group as a
globally integrated enterprise. These costs represent additional expenses incurred that are not related to the normal business and day-
to-day activities. These initiatives include the costs associated with Quantum, being a review of the Group’s organisational structure
announced in 2019 to simplify the business and create a more efficient, agile and focused company. In 2022, these also included a review
of the Group’s manufacturing operations. Since 2022, no further Quantum restructuring charges have been recognised as adjusting
following the completion of the Quantum programme.
The costs of the Group’s initiatives are included in profit from operations under the following headings:
2024 2023 2022
Notes £m £m £m
Employee benefit costs 3 — (26) 315
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 4 — 39 220
Other operating income 5 — — (1)
Other operating expenses — (15) 237
— (2) 771
The adjusting charge in 2022 related to the cost of employee packages in respect of Quantum and the ongoing costs associated with
initiatives to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Group as a globally integrated organisation. In addition, Quantum initiatives in
certain countries have resulted in the move to above market business models utilising local distributors as importers. As a consequence,
with the cessation of a physical presence in these markets, foreign exchange previously recognised in other comprehensive income for
these countries has been reclassified to the income statement and reported within other operating expenses (note 22(c)(i)).
In 2023, following the completion of the Quantum programme, a credit of £26 million was recognised due to the reversal of restructuring
provisions recognised in respect of employee packages. In addition, a credit of £7 million was recognised in 2023 in relation to impairment
reversals associated with the Quantum programme. Included in this was an impairment reversal of £4 million in relation to machinery in
South Africa as the asset can be used by another market in the Group.
In addition, in 2023, an adjusting impairment charge of £46 million was recognised for machinery in Reynolds American Companies due
to the adverse impact from macro-economic headwinds and industry volume decline in the U.S., as explained in note 12(e)(vi).
The reversal recognised in other operating expenses in 2023 of £15 million included unutilised Quantum provisions along with £3 million
relating to the release of a provision originally raised in 2007 relating to site clean up costs in Canada. As no further work is required on the
site the remaining provision was reversed.
The restructuring costs reported in other operating expenses in 2022 include costs related to factory closures or rationalisation in
APMEA, AME and the U.S. and costs recognised as part of the Group's announced exit from Egypt.
283
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
8 Net finance costs
(a) Net finance costs/(income)
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Interest expense 1,704 1,786 1,602
Interest expense on lease liabilities 38 30 25
Facility fees 17 19 21
Impact of the early repurchase of bonds (note 8(b)) (590) 29 —
Interest related to adjusting tax payables (note 8(b)) 80 71 36
Fair value changes on derivative financial instruments, hedged items and investments 90 599 (473)
Fair value change on other financial items (note 8(b)) 19 (4) (2)
Exchange differences (9) (449) 524
Finance costs 1,349 2,081 1,733
Interest income under the effective interest method (251) (186) (92)
Finance income (251) (186) (92)
Net finance costs 1,098 1,895 1,641
The Group manages foreign exchange gains and losses and fair value changes on a net basis excluding adjusting items, which are
explained in note 8(b). The derivatives that generate the fair value changes are explained in note 19.
Facility fees principally relate to the Group’s central banking facilities.
In 2024, the Group completed a tender offer to repurchase sterling-equivalent £1,824 million (2023: £3,133 million) of bonds, including
£15 million (2023: £43 million) of accrued interest. Further details on the tender offer are provided in note 26. Other net costs directly
associated with the early repurchase of bonds were treated as adjusting items as detailed in note 8(b).
Finance income includes income on cash and cash equivalents of which £112 million (2023: £97 million) relates to restricted cash balances
(see note 21).
(b) Adjusting items included in net finance costs
Adjusting items are significant items in net finance costs which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an
understanding of the Group’s underlying financial performance.
In 2024, in relation to the early repurchase of bonds, the Group incurred a fair value loss of £9 million (2023: £151 million) on debt-related
derivatives, realised a gain of £602 million (2023: £129 million) arising on the difference between the redemption value and the amortised
cost of the bonds, and incurred other transaction costs of £3 million (2023: £7 million).
The Group recognised interest on adjusting tax payables of £80 million (2023: £71 million; 2022: £36 million), which included:
–interest of £61 million (2023: £60 million; 2022: £33 million) in relation to the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order
(FII GLO) (note 10(b));
–interest of £8 million (2023: £16 million) in relation to a tax provision in the Netherlands;
–a charge of £14 million in relation to a tax case in Brazil;
–interest of £11 million on a tax provision in Indonesia;
–a release of £25 million of interest on tax provision in Canada in relation to a settlement agreement with local authorities; and
–a further £11 million interest charge recorded on government liability balances accumulated during CCAA protection.
In prior periods, the interest on adjusting tax payables also included in 2023 a £3 million credit from the reversal of interest on a tax
provision in relation to the factory closure in Switzerland and a £2 million credit from the reversal of interest on tax provisions related
to Russia, and in 2022, a £3 million charge in respect of a potential tax clawback due to the factory closure in Switzerland.
Included within fair value changes on other financial items are:
(i) In 2024, the Group incurred a fair value loss of £19 million on embedded derivatives related to associates;
(ii) In 2021, as part of the disposal of the Group’s operations in Iran, a provision of £24 million was charged to net finance costs against
non-current investments held at fair value due to the uncertainty around recovery of these funds. In 2022, part of these funds were
recovered and therefore a reversal of the provision of £17 million was recognised in net finance costs. In 2023, a further £4 million was
recovered and recognised in net finance costs; and
(iii) In 2022, a £15 million of foreign exchange loss was recognised in net finance costs, arising on the revaluation of foreign currency
balances held in Russia that no longer qualified for hedge accounting due to the proposed sale of the Group's Russian business as
detailed in note 27(d)(i).
284
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
9 Associates and joint ventures
2024 2023 2022
Group’s
Total share Total Group's share Total Group's share
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 9,936 2,635 9,412 2,630 9,486 2,675
Profit from operations 2,662 715 2,596 783 1,971 622
Net finance income 5 2 15 4 21 4
Profit on ordinary activities
before taxation 2,667 717 2,611 787 1,992 626
Taxation on ordinary activities (639) (172) (664) (194) (595) (176)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 2,028 545 1,947 593 1,397 450
Non-controlling interests (27) (6) (28) (8) (27) (8)
Post-tax results of associates and joint
ventures 2,001 539 1,919 585 1,370 442
Gain from partial divestment of shares in
ITC — 1,361 — — — —
Total post-tax results of associates and
joint ventures 2,001 1,900 1,919 5850 1,370 442
Enumerated below are movements that have impacted the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in 2024, 2023 and 2022.
The amounts below were reported as adjusting items under the share of profit from associates in the income statement.
(a) Adjusting items
In 2024, the Group’s interest in ITC, an associate of the Group in India, decreased from 29.02% to 25.45% (2023: 29.19% to 29.02%; 2022:
29.38% to 29.19%) as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the ITC Employee Share Option Scheme and the Group's partial
divestment of shares held in ITC.
The issue of these shares under the ITC Employee Option Scheme and related change in the Group’s share of ITC resulted in a
gain of £18 million (2023: £40 million gain; 2022: £3 million loss), which is treated as a deemed partial disposal and included in the
income statement.
On 13 March 2024, the Group announced the divestment of 436,851,457 ordinary shares held in ITC, representing 12% of the Group's
equity stake (the equivalent of 3.5% of ITC's ordinary shares). A gain of £1,361 million has been recognised in the Group’s share of post-tax
results of associates and joint ventures and includes a foreign exchange loss of £43 million reclassified to the income statement and
previously recognised in associates other comprehensive income. Refer to note 27(b)(i) for further details.
In 2023, ITC recognised a credit in respect of the proceeds received in partial settlement of the insurance claim towards the cost of leaf
tobacco stocks destroyed in a third-party warehouse fire, the Group’s share of which was £2 million.
In 2022, the Group incurred a £2 million amortisation charge in relation to the acquired intangibles associated with the acquisition
of Organigram. In 2023, these acquired trademarks were impaired in full. Additionally, in 2023, the Group impaired the investment
in Organigram by £34 million (2022: £59 million) (net of tax), driven by the decrease in Organigram’s share price. In 2024, no further
impairment was required.
During 2022, the Group decided to cease business activities altogether in Yemen, including participating in the management of the
Group's associates, due to the challenging operating environment in the country. This led to the full impairment of the investment in
the Group's remaining associate in Yemen, United Industries Company Limited, with a charge of £18 million to the income statement.
(b) Other financial information
The Group’s share of the results of associates and joint ventures (excluding the gain from partial divestment of shares in ITC) is shown
in the table below.
2024 2023 2022
Group’s Group’s Group’s
share share share
£m £m £m
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation
– attributable to owners of the parent 539 585 442
Other comprehensive income:
Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss (13) (107) 6
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 33 (5) 19
Total comprehensive income 559 473 467
285
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Summarised financial information of the Group’s associates and joint ventures is shown below.
2024
ITC Others Total
£m £m £m
Revenue 7,265 2,671 9,936
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,680 (13) 2,667
Post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 2,025 (24) 2,001
Other comprehensive income 98 (15) 83
Total comprehensive income 2,123 (39) 2,084
2023
ITC Others Total
£m £m £m
Revenue 6,805 2,607 9,412
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,813 (202) 2,611
Post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 2,121 (202) 1,919
Other comprehensive loss (368) (20) (388)
Total comprehensive income 1,753 (222) 1,531
2022
ITC Others Total
£m £m £m
Revenue 7,126 2,360 9,486
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,395 (403) 1,992
Post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,761 (391) 1,370
Other comprehensive income 56 32 88
Total comprehensive income 1,817 (359) 1,458
286
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
10 Taxation on ordinary activities
(a) Summary of taxation on ordinary activities
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
UK corporation tax 24 32 (3)
Comprising:
– current year tax expense 15 20 2
– adjustments in respect of prior periods 9 12 (5)
Overseas tax 2,679 2,779 2,721
Comprising:
– current year tax expense 2,571 2,804 2,675
– adjustments in respect of prior periods 108 (25) 46
Current tax 2,703 2,811 2,718
Pillar Two income tax (note 10(h)) 79 — —
Total current tax 2,782 2,811 2,718
Deferred tax (2,425) (5,683) (240)
Comprising:
– deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,176) (5,577) (174)
– deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates (249) (106) (66)
357 (2,872) 2,478
(b) Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order
The Group is the principal test claimant in an action in the United Kingdom against HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) in the Franked
Investment Income Group Litigation Order (FII GLO). There were 15 corporate groups in the FII GLO as at 31 December 2024. The case
concerns the treatment for UK corporate tax purposes of profits earned overseas and distributed to the UK.
The original claim was filed in 2003. The trial of the claim was split broadly into issues of liability and quantification. The main liability
issues were heard by the High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court in the UK and the European Court of Justice in the period to
November 2012. The detailed technical issues of the quantification mechanics of the claim were heard by the High Court during May and
June 2014 and the judgment handed down on 18 December 2014. The High Court determined that in respect of issues concerning the
calculation of unlawfully charged corporation tax and advance corporation tax, the law of restitution including the defence on change of
position and questions concerning the calculation of overpaid interest, the approach of the Group was broadly preferred. The conclusion
reached by the High Court would, if upheld, produce an estimated receivable of £1.2 billion for the Group. Appeals on a majority of the
issues were made to the Court of Appeal, which heard the arguments in June 2016. The Court of Appeal determined in November 2016
on the majority of issues that the conclusion reached by the High Court should be upheld. The Supreme Court gave permission for a
number of issues to be appealed in two separate hearings. The first, in February 2020, concerned the time limit for bringing claims. In its
application for permission HMRC sought to reverse established House of Lords’ authorities on which those earlier judgments were
based. They were granted permission to do so by the Supreme Court who divided the appeal into two hearings, the first on the issue of
time limits and the second on the issue of interest and related topics. In November 2020, the Supreme Court handed down its judgment
on the first stage of that appeal. The Supreme Court agreed to overturn its existing case law partially but introduced a new test for
determining whether claims of this type are in time. The case was then remitted to the High Court to apply that new test to the facts.
The judgment from the second hearing was handed down in July 2021. Applying that judgment reduces the value of BAT's FII claim to
approximately £0.3 billion, mainly as the result of the application of simple interest and the limitation to claims for advance corporation
tax offset against lawful corporation tax charges, which is subject to the determination of the remitted timing issue by the High Court
and any subsequent appeal. The High Court hearing on time limits was heard in late November 2023 with judgment handed down in
February 2024. The High Court determined that claims should have been filed within 6 years of June 2000 meaning that BAT’s claims are
in time. HMRC have applied to appeal the judgment, which has been granted, with a hearing set for May 2025. The final resolution of all
issues in the litigation is likely to take several more years.
During 2015, HMRC paid to the Group a gross amount of £1,224 million in two separate payments. The payments made by HMRC
have been made without any admission of liability and are subject to refund were HMRC to succeed on appeal. The second payment
in November 2015 followed the introduction of a new 45% tax on the interest component of restitution claims against HMRC. HMRC
held back £261 million from the second payment contending that it represents the new 45% tax on that payment, leading to total cash
received by the Group of £963 million. Actions challenging the legality of the withholding of the 45% tax have been lodged by the Group.
The First Tier Tribunal found in favour of HMRC in July 2017 and the Group’s appeal to the Upper Tribunal was heard in July 2018. In
February 2025, the Group reached agreement with HMRC that the 45% tax should not apply to the reduced value of Group’s claim
(£0.3 billion as mentioned above). This does not impact the repayment agreement referred to below, with the legal challenge on this
issue now concluded.
Due to the uncertainty of the amounts and eventual outcome, the Group has not recognised any impact in the Income Statement in the
current or prior period. The receipt, net of the deduction by HMRC, is held within trade and other payables as disclosed in note 25. Any future
recognition as income will be treated as an adjusting item, due to the size of the amount, with interest of £61 million for the 12 months to
31 December 2024 (2023: £60 million; 2022: £33 million) accruing on the balance, which was also treated as an adjusting item.
287
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The Group made interim repayments to HMRC of £50 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, and, during 2024, the Group agreed to repay £0.8
billion to HMRC (being the difference between the amounts received plus accrued interest and the amount determined in the July 2021
judgment (£0.3 billion)). The schedule for the remaining agreed repayments is:
–£479 million in 2025;
–£222 million in 2026; and
–£43 million in 2027.
(c) Factors affecting the taxation charge
The taxation charge differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25.0% for 2024, 23.5% for 2023 and 19.0% 2022.
The major causes of this difference are listed below:
2024 2023 2022
£m % £m % £m %
Profit/(loss) before tax 3,538 (17,061) 9,324
Less: share of post-tax results of associates and joint
ventures (see note 9) (1,900) (585) (442)
1,638 (17,646) 8,882
Tax at 25% (2023: 23.5%; 2022: 19%) on the above 410 25.0 (4,147) 23.5 1,688 19.0
Factors affecting the tax rate:
Tax at standard rates other than UK corporation tax rate 395 24.1 619 (3.5) 397 4.5
Other national tax charges 277 16.9 310 (1.8) 244 2.7
Pillar Two income taxes 79 4.8 — — — —
Permanent differences (71) (4.3) 845 (4.8) 83 0.9
Overseas withholding taxes 168 10.3 179 (1.0) 156 1.8
Double taxation relief on UK profits (30) (1.8) (46) 0.3 (26) (0.3)
Unutilised/(utilised) tax losses 33 2.0 (15) 0.1 12 0.1
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 117 7.1 (13) 0.1 41 0.5
Deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates (249) (15.2) (106) 0.6 (66) (0.7)
Additional net deferred tax (credits)/charges (772) (47.1) (498) 2.8 (51) (0.6)
357 21.8 (2,872) 16.3 2,478 27.9
Additional net deferred tax credits in 2024 mainly reflect the Canadian provincial tax consequences of the Proposed Plans in Canada,
described further in notes 24 and 31.
The Group's reported 2023 tax rate is significantly impacted by the impairment of intangible assets as described in note 12.
–Permanent differences in 2023 consist mainly of the tax impact of the goodwill impairment (for which no tax relief is available).
–Additional net deferred tax (credits)/charges in 2023 consist mainly of the U.S. state deferred tax impact of the trademark impairment
(please see further in note 16).
(d) Adjusting items included in taxation
In 2024, adjusting items in taxation included a net credit of £157 million mainly relating to Brazilian Federal Tax Authority challenges
regarding the treatment of Rio de Janeiro VAT incentives (described further in note 31) and a provision for potential tax exposures in
Indonesia, offset by the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities arising on trademarks recognised in the Reynolds American acquisition in
2017 due to changes in U.S. state tax rates and the reversal of a tax provision in Canada following a settlement agreement with local
authorities.
In 2023, adjusting items in taxation included a net credit of £73 million relating to the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities arising on
trademarks recognised in the Reynolds American acquisition in 2017 due to changes in U.S. state tax rates, the reversal of provisions for
Russia tax risks and a potential clawback of tax reliefs arising on the closure of the Group's factory in Switzerland offset by a provision for
potential tax exposures in the Netherlands and the tax impact in Brazil of the legal case regarding Rio de Janeiro VAT incentives
(described further in note 6(k)).
In 2022, adjusting items in taxation included a net credit of £27 million mainly relating to the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities arising
on trademarks recognised in the Reynolds American acquisition in 2017 due to changes in U.S. state tax rates and a potential clawback
of tax reliefs arising on the closure of the Group's factory in Switzerland.
288
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
(e) Tax on adjusting items
In addition, the tax on adjusting items, separated between the different categories, as per note 11, amounted to £2,049 million
(2023: £5,415 million; 2022: £176 million). The adjustment to the adjusted earnings per share (note 11) also includes £38 million
(2023: £1 million; 2022: £5 million) in respect of the non-controlling interests’ share of the adjusting items net of tax.
(f) Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Current tax (6) (5) (6)
Deferred tax (18) 12 (106)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income (24) 7 (112)
(g) Tax on items recognised directly in equity
In relation to the perpetual hybrid bonds issued on 27 September 2021 (note 22(d)), tax relief of £14 million (2023: £14 million;
2022: £11 million) has been recognised, principally in relation to the coupon incurred.
(h) Global minimum tax
In December 2021, the OECD released model rules for a new global minimum corporate tax framework applicable to multinational
enterprise groups with global revenues of over €750 million (“Pillar Two” rules). The UK substantively enacted legislation implementing
these rules on 20 June 2023 and the rules apply to the Group as of 1 January 2024. The impact is shown in notes 10(a) and 10(c) above.
The Group continues to review this legislation together with developing guidance. The Group is also monitoring the status of
implementation of the Pillar Two rules outside of the UK to assess the potential impact.
11 Earnings per share
Earnings used in the basic, diluted and headline earnings per share calculation represent the profit attributable to the ordinary equity
shareholders after deducting amounts representing the coupon on perpetual hybrid bonds on a pro-rata basis regardless of whether or
not coupons have been declared and paid in the period. Below is a reconciliation of the earnings used to calculate earnings per share:
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Earnings/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent 3,068 (14,367) 6,666
Coupon on perpetual hybrid bonds (56) (59) (60)
Tax on coupon on perpetual hybrid bonds 14 14 11
Earnings/(loss) 3,026 (14,412) 6,617
In 2023, the Group reported a loss for the year. Following the requirements of IAS 33 Earnings per Share, the impact of share options
would be antidilutive and are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. Below is a reconciliation from basic to diluted
earnings per share for 2024 and 2022:
2024 2023 2022
Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average
number of Earnings number of Loss number of Earnings
Earnings shares per share Loss shares per share Earnings shares per share
£m m pence £m m pence £m m pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per share
(ordinary shares of 25p each) 3,026 2,214 136.7 (14,412) 2,229 (646.6) 6,617 2,256 293.3
Share options — 11 (0.7) — — — — 11 (1.4)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share* 3,026 2,225 136.0 (14,412) 2,229 (646.6) 6,617 2,267 291.9
Note:
* In 2023, the Group reported a loss for the year. Following the requirements of IAS 33, the impact of share options would be antidilutive and is therefore excluded, for 2023, from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IFRS. For remuneration purposes, and reflective of the Group's positive earnings on an adjusted basis,
Management included the dilutive effect of share options in calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share. There were 8 million share options on a weighted average basis in 2023.
Adjusted earnings per share calculation
Earnings have been affected by a number of adjusting items, which are described in notes 3 to 10. Adjusting items are significant items
in the profit from operations, net finance costs, taxation and the Group’s share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures
which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the Group’s underlying financial performance.
The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying
business performance. To illustrate the impact of these items, an adjusted earnings per share calculation is shown below.
289
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Basic
2024 2023 2022
(Loss)/
Earnings (Loss)/ Earnings Earnings
Earnings per share earnings per share Earnings per share
Notes £m pence £m pence £m pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 3,026 136.7 (14,412) (646.6) 6,617 293.3
Effect of amortisation and impairment of
goodwill, trademarks and similar intangibles 4 2,318 104.7 27,816 1,247.9 285 12.6
Tax and non-controlling interests on
amortisation and impairment of goodwill,
trademarks and similar intangibles 10(e) (522) (23.6) (5,390) (241.8) (67) (3.0)
Effect of impairment charges in respect
of property, plant and equipment 4 149 6.7 — — — —
Tax and non-controlling interests on
impairment charges in respect of property,
plant and equipment 10(e) (48) (2.2) — — — —
Effect of settlement of historical litigation
in relation to the Fox River 5(c) (132) (6.0) — — — —
Tax on settlement of historical litigation
in relation to the Fox River 10(e) 22 1.0 — — — —
Net effect of excise and VAT cases 5(b), 6(k) — — (167) (7.5) (460) (20.4)
Tax on excise and VAT cases 10(e) — — 41 1.8 72 3.2
Effect of the ongoing litigation in Canada 6(c) 6,203 280.2 — — — —
Tax on the ongoing litigation in Canada 10(e) (1,644) (74.3) — — — —
Effect of disposal of subsidiaries 6(f) — — 546 24.5 (6) (0.3)
Effect of Romania and Brazil other taxes 6(k) 449 20.3 47 2.1 — —
Tax on Romania and Brazil other taxes 10(e) (2) (0.1) (16) (0.7) — —
Effect of charges in respect of DOJ and OFAC
investigations 6(h) 4 0.2 75 3.4 450 19.9
Effect of planned disposal of subsidiaries 6(j) — — (195) (8.7) 612 27.2
Tax on planned disposal of subsidiaries 10(e) — — — — (10) (0.4)
Effect of restructuring and integration costs 7 — — (2) (0.1) 771 34.2
Tax and non-controlling interests on
10(e) — — (3) (0.1) (116) (5.1)
restructuring and integration costs
Other adjusting items 3, 6(d),6(g),6(i) 163 7.4 96 4.3 233 10.3
Tax effect on other adjusting items 10(e) (44) (2.0) (22) (1.0) (37) (1.6)
Effect of early repurchase of bonds 8(b) (590) (26.6) 29 1.3 — —
Tax effect of early repurchase of bonds 10(e) 141 6.4 (8) (0.4) — —
Effect of interest on FII GLO settlement
and other 8(b) 99 4.5 67 3.0 34 1.5
Tax effect of interest on FII GLO settlement
and other 10(e) (26) (1.2) (18) (0.8) (6) (0.3)
Effect of gains related to the partial
divestment of shares held in ITC 9(a) (1,361) (61.5) — — — —
Capital gains tax and deferred tax associated
with the partial divestment of shares held in ITC 10(e) 36 1.6 2 — — — —
Effect of associates' adjusting items net of tax 9(a) (18) (0.8) — (8) (0.4) 92 4.1
Deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 10(d) (267) (12.1) (97) (4.4) (44) (2.0)
Adjusting items in tax 10(d) 110 5.0 24 1.2 — —
Adjusted earnings per share (basic) 8,066 364.3 8,403 377.0 8,420 373.2
290
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Diluted
2024 2023 2022
(Loss)/
Earnings (Loss)/ earnings Earnings
Earnings per share earnings per share Earnings per share
Notes £m pence £m pence £m pence
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 3,026 136.0 (14,412) (646.6) 6,617 291.9
Effect of amortisation and impairment of
goodwill, trademarks and similar intangibles 4 2,318 104.2 27,816 1,247.9 285 12.6
Tax and non-controlling interests on
amortisation and impairment of goodwill,
trademarks and similar intangibles 10(e) (522) (23.5) (5,390) (241.8) (67) (3.0)
Effect of impairment charges in respect
of property, plant and equipment 4 149 6.7 — — — —
Tax and non-controlling interests on
impairment charges in respect of property,
plant and equipment 10(e) (48) (2.2) — — — —
Effect of settlement of historical litigation
in relation to the Fox River 5(c) (132) (5.9) — — — —
Tax on settlement of historical litigation
in relation to the Fox River 10(e) 22 1.0 — — — —
Net effect of excise and VAT cases 5(b), 6(k) — — (167) (7.5) (460) (20.3)
Tax on excise and VAT cases 10(e) — — 41 1.8 72 3.2
Effect of the ongoing litigation in Canada 6(c) 6,203 278.9 — — — —
Tax on the ongoing litigation in Canada 10(e) (1,644) (73.9) — — — —
Effect of disposal of subsidiaries 6(f) — — 546 24.5 (6) (0.3)
Effect of Romania and Brazil other taxes 6(k) 449 20.2 47 2.1 — —
Tax on Romania and Brazil other taxes 10(e) (2) (0.1) (16) (0.7) — —
Effect of charges in respect of DOJ and OFAC
investigations 6(h) 4 0.2 75 3.4 450 19.9
Effect of planned disposal of subsidiaries 6(j) — — (195) (8.7) 612 26.8
Tax on planned disposal of subsidiaries 10(e) — — — — (10) (0.4)
Effect of restructuring and integration costs 7 — — (2) (0.1) 771 34.0
Tax and non-controlling interests on
restructuring and integration costs 10(e) — — (3) (0.1) (116) (5.1)
Other adjusting items 3, 6(d)6(g),6(i) 163 7.3 96 4.3 233 10.3
Tax effect on other adjusting items 10(e) (44) (2.0) (22) (1.0) (37) (1.6)
Effect of early repurchase of bonds 8(b) (590) (26.5) 29 1.3 — —
Tax effect of early repurchase of bonds 10(e) 141 6.3 (8) (0.4) — —
Effect of interest on FII GLO settlement and other 8(b) 99 4.4 67 3.0 34 1.5
Tax effect of interest on FII GLO settlement
and other 10(e) (26) (1.2) — (18) (0.8) — (6) (0.3)
Effect of gains related to the partial
divestment of shares held in ITC 9(a) (1,361) (61.1) 1 — — 1 — —
Capital gains tax and deferred tax associated with
the partial divestment of shares held in ITC 10(e) 36 1.6 2 — — 2 — —
Effect of associates' adjusting items net of tax 9(a) (18) (0.8) — (8) (0.4) — 92 4.1
Deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 10(d) (267) (12.0) 1 (97) (4.4) 1 (44) (1.9)
Adjusting items in tax 10(d) 110 4.9 24 1.2 — —
Impact of dilution* — — — (1.4)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 8,066 362.5 8,403 375.6 8,420 371.4
Note:
* In 2023, the Group reported a loss for the year. Following the requirements of IAS 33, the impact of share options would be antidilutive and is therefore excluded, for 2023, from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IFRS. For remuneration purposes, and reflective of the Group's positive earnings on an adjusted basis,
Management included the dilutive effect of share options in calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share.
291
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Headline earnings per share as required by the JSE Limited
The presentation of headline earnings per share, as an alternative measure of earnings per share, is mandated under the JSE Listing
Requirements. It is calculated in accordance with Circular 1/2023 ‘Headline Earnings’, as issued by the South African Institute of
Chartered Accountants.
Basic
2024 2023 2022
(Loss)/
Earnings (Loss)/ earnings Earnings
Earnings per share earnings per share Earnings per share
£m pence £m pence £m pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 3,026 136.7 (14,412) (646.6) 6,617 293.3
Effect of impairment of intangibles, property, plant and
equipment, associates and assets held-for-sale 875 39.5 27,800 1,247.2 429 19.0
Tax and non-controlling interests on intangibles, property,
plant and equipment, associates and assets held-for-sale (203) (9.2) (5,430) (243.6) (77) (3.4)
Effect of gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment,
trademarks, held-for-sale assets, partial/full termination of
IFRS 16 leases, and sale and leaseback (129) (5.8) (125) (5.6) (21) (0.9)
Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of property,
plant and equipment, held-for-sale assets, partial/full
termination of IFRS 16 leases, and sale and leaseback 32 1.4 27 1.2 5 0.2
Effect of impairment of subsidiaries transferred to held-for-
sale and associated costs — — (203) (9.1) 548 24.2
Tax on impairment of subsidiaries and associated costs — — — — (10) (0.4)
Effect of foreign exchange reclassification from reserves to
the income statement
- Subsidiaries — — 552 24.8 6 0.3
- Associates — — — — (1) —
Issue of shares and change in shareholding of an associate (18) (0.8) (40) (1.8) 3 0.1
Gain on partial disposal of an associate and associated
— — — —
capital gains tax, including foreign exchange recycled (1,307) (59.0)
Headline earnings per share (basic) 2,276 102.8 8,169 366.5 7,499 332.4
Diluted
2024 2023 2022
(Loss)/
Earnings (Loss)/ earnings Earnings
Earnings per share earnings per share Earnings per share
£m pence £m pence £m pence
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 3,026 136.0 (14,412) (646.6) 6,617 291.9
Effect of impairment of intangibles, property, plant and
equipment, associates and assets held-for-sale 875 39.3 27,800 1,247.2 429 18.9
Tax and non-controlling interests on intangibles, property,
plant and equipment, associates and assets held-for-sale (203) (9.1) (5,430) (243.6) (77) (3.4)
Effect of gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment,
trademarks, held-for-sale assets, partial/full termination of
IFRS 16 leases, and sale and leaseback (129) (5.8) (125) (5.6) (21) (0.9)
Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of property,
plant and equipment, held-for-sale assets, partial/full
termination of IFRS 16 leases, and sale and leaseback 32 1.4 27 1.2 5 0.2
Effect of impairment of subsidiaries transferred to held-for-
sale and associated costs — — (203) (9.1) 548 24.1
Tax on impairment of subsidiaries and associated costs — — — — (10) (0.4)
Effect of foreign exchange reclassification from reserves to
the income statement
- Subsidiaries — — 552 24.8 6 0.3
- Associates — — — — (1) —
Issue of shares and change in shareholding of an associate (18) (0.8) (40) (1.8) 3 0.1
Gain on partial disposal of an associate and associated
capital gains tax, including foreign exchange recycled (1,307) (58.7) — — — —
Headline earnings per share (diluted) 2,276 102.3 8,169 366.5 7,499 330.8
292
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
12 Intangible assets
(a) Overview of intangible assets
2024
Trademarks Assets in
and similar Computer the course of
intangibles Goodwill software development Total
£m £m £m £m £m
1 January
Cost 78,848 46,021 1,408 110 126,387
Accumulated amortisation and impairment (24,847) (4,930) (1,048) — (30,825)
Net book value at 1 January 54,001 41,091 360 110 95,562
Differences on exchange 915 77 (1) (1) 990
Additions
– internal development — — — 80 80
– separately acquired 95 — — 15 110
Reallocations — — 40 (40) —
Amortisation charge (1,652) — (120) — (1,772)
Impairment (646) (39) (9) — (694)
31 December
Cost 80,277 46,169 1,299 165 127,910
Accumulated amortisation and impairment (27,564) (5,040) (1,029) (1) (33,634)
Net book value at 31 December 52,713 41,129 270 164 94,276
2023
Trademarks Assets in
and similar Computer the course of
intangibles Goodwill software development Total
£m £m £m £m £m
1 January
Cost 83,454 48,488 1,379 153 133,474
Accumulated amortisation and impairment (2,851) (532) (1,005) (11) (4,399)
Net book value at 1 January 80,603 47,956 374 142 129,075
Differences on exchange (3,431) (2,251) (4) 1 (5,685)
Additions
– internal development — — — 75 75
– separately acquired 59 — — 3 62
Reallocations 2 — 115 (111) 6
Amortisation charge (237) — (120) — (357)
Impairment (22,995) (4,614) (5) — (27,614)
31 December
Cost 78,848 46,021 1,408 110 126,387
Accumulated amortisation and impairment (24,847) (4,930) (1,048) — (30,825)
Net book value at 31 December 54,001 41,091 360 110 95,562
(b) Goodwill
Goodwill of £41,129 million (2023: £41,091 million) is included in intangible assets in the balance sheet of which the following are the
significant acquisitions: Reynolds American £31,491 million (2023: £30,938 million); Rothmans Group £4,091 million (2023: £4,274 million);
Imperial Tobacco Canada £2,229 million (2023: £2,386 million); ETI (Italy) £1,363 million (2023: £1,428 million) and ST (principally
Scandinavia) £1,024 million (2023: £1,074 million). The principal allocations of goodwill in the Rothmans acquisition are to the cash-
generating units of Europe and South Africa, with the remainder relating to operations in APMEA.
During 2024, there was £39 million goodwill impairment (2023: £4,614 million) as explained in note 12(e)(v) below.
293
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
(c) Trademarks and similar intangibles
Trademarks and similar intangibles with indefinite lives
The net book value of trademarks and similar intangibles with indefinite lives is £9,832 million (2023: £51,930 million) and relates to the
acquisition of Reynolds American. Following the redesignation of Newport, Camel, Natural American Spirit and Pall Mall as definite-lived
from 1 January 2024, the remaining indefinite-lived brands include Camel Snus and Grizzly. The trademarks acquired form the core focus
of the U.S. oral business and receive significant support in the form of dedicated internal resources, forecasting and, where appropriate,
marketing investment. The Grizzly trademark has significant market share and positive cash flow expectations. There are no regulatory or
contractual restrictions on the use of the trademark, and there are no plans by Management to significantly redirect resources elsewhere.
As explained in note 12(e)(ii), as a result of accelerated volume loss to Modern Oral, an impairment of £646 million in respect of Camel
Snus has been recognised and Management have concluded that it is appropriate to redesignate Camel Snus as definite-lived from
1 January 2025 (2024: indefinite-lived, 2023: indefinite-lived) with an estimated life of 20 years to be amortised on a straight-line basis.
Trademarks and similar intangibles with definite lives
The majority of trademarks and similar intangibles with definite lives relate to trademarks acquired in previous years. These trademarks
are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which do not exceed 30 years. Included in the net book value of
trademarks and similar intangibles with definite lives are trademarks relating to the acquisition of Reynolds American £42,605 million
(2023: £1,809 million) including Newport, Camel, Natural American Spirit and Pall Mall which were redesignated as definite-lived from
1 January 2024 (2023: indefinite-lived) with an estimated life of between 20-30 years. These trademarks are part of the Group’s Strategic
Portfolio of key brands and form the core focus of the U.S. combustibles business and receive significant support in the form of dedicated
internal resources, forecasting and, where appropriate, marketing investment. These trademarks have significant market share and
positive cash flow expectations. There are no regulatory or contractual restrictions on the use of the trademarks, and there are no plans
by Management to significantly redirect resources elsewhere.
The below table shows the change in carrying value for the key definite-lived brands relating to the acquisition of Reynolds American.
Carrying amount Differences on Amortisation Carrying amount
1 January exchange Charge 31 December
£m £m £m £m
Definite-lived intangibles
Newport 20,753 358 (690) 20,421
Camel 7,822 134 (260) 7,696
Pall Mall 2,608 44 (130) 2,522
Natural American Spirit 10,439 180 (347) 10,272
Other 1,809 29 (144) 1,694
Total 43,431 745 (1,571) 42,605
(d) Computer software and assets in the course of development
Included in computer software and assets in the course of development are internally developed assets with a carrying value of
£398 million (2023: £450 million). The costs of internally developed assets include capitalised expenses of employees working full time
on software development projects, third-party consultants and software licence fees from third-party suppliers.
The Group has £5 million of future contractual commitments (2023: £2 million) related to intangible assets.
(e) Impairment testing
(i) Overview
a. Estimation uncertainty
As described in note 1, the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements include the
review of asset values, especially indefinite-lived assets such as goodwill and certain trademarks and similar intangibles.
There is significant judgement with regard to assumptions and estimates involved in the forecasting of future cash flows, which form the
basis of the assessment of the recoverability of these assets, with the effect that the value-in-use and fair value calculations incorporate
estimation uncertainty, particularly for certain assets held in relation to the U.S. market.
b. Impact of climate change
The impact of climate change has been considered in preparation of the financial statements. For impairment testing and valuation
purposes, the Group have included certain climate-related costs within the discounted cash flow forecast for impairment assessment.
The Group also completed scenario analyses of the potential impact of climate change-related risks. This sensitised discounted cash
flow included climate-related product taxes and carbon taxes within the future cash flows and resulted in no material adverse impact to
the impairment assessment.
(ii) Impairment testing - Trademarks and similar intangibles with indefinite lives (brands)
The trademarks and similar intangibles with indefinite lives (brands) have been tested for impairment with recoverable amounts
estimated on the basis of fair value less cost of disposal and classified as level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. The fair value calculations
use cash flows based on detailed brand budgets prepared by Management using projected sales volumes and pricing (net revenue) and
projected brand profitability covering a five-year horizon and, thereafter, grown into perpetuity. A tax amortisation benefit factor is then
applied to incorporate the additional value a market participant would derive in an asset acquisition scenario. Corporate costs are
allocated to the brand budgets based on either specific allocations, where appropriate, or based on revenue. The discount rates and long-
term growth rates applied to the brand fair value calculations have been determined by local management based on experience, specific
market and brand trends and pricing and cost expectations. As the trademarks and similar intangibles with indefinite lives relate to the
acquisition of Reynolds American, the brand budgets used in the fair value calculations have also been incorporated into the budget
information used in the impairment testing of Reynolds American goodwill.
As a result of accelerated volume loss to Modern Oral, an impairment of £646 million in respect of Camel Snus has been recognised.
294
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The below table indicates the key assumptions used in assessing the indefinite-lived brands for impairment.
2024 2023
Carrying Pre-tax Carrying Pre-tax
amount Volume 5 Year discount rate* amount Volume 5 Year discount rate
£m CAGR** % £m CAGR %
Indefinite-lived intangibles
Camel Snus 459 (10.1) % 8.6 1,099 (5.4) % 7.8
Grizzly 9,373 7.6 % 7.6 9,209 (3.9) % 7.8
Total 9,832 10,308
Notes:
* For the purpose of the current year impairment assessment, the recoverable amount for Camel Snus is estimated on the basis of fair value less cost of disposal and has been prepared based
on a five-year risk adjusted cash flow forecast, supplemented by a forecast on a discrete period basis reflecting the revised useful economic life effective 1 January 2025 to support the long term
growth rate. Valuations derived from applying post-tax discount rates to post-tax cash flows are aligned to those that would arise from applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
** Volume five-year CAGR is calculated by reference to the first five years annual volumes in the fair value less cost of disposal model against the 2024 baseline. The increase in volume 5 year CAGR
for the Grizzly brand reflects the inclusion of the Modern Oral product launched under the brand during 2024.
Concurrent to the impairment assessment, and reflecting Management's revised volume projections, Management have concluded that
it is appropriate to redesignate Camel Snus as definite-lived from 1 January 2025 (2024: indefinite-lived, 2023: indefinite-lived) with an
estimated life of 20 years to be amortised on a straight-line basis. The annual increase to amortisation as a result of this change is
expected to be £23 million.
Refer to note 12(e)(vi) for more details on impairment testing.
(iii) Impairment testing - Trademarks and similar intangibles with definite lives (brands)
Whilst no impairment triggers were identified, as noted in note12(e)(vi), the cash flow forecasts for the definite-lived brands have been
incorporated in the impairment test for the goodwill associated with the Reynolds CGU. These brands have therefore been tested for
impairment with recoverable amounts estimated on the basis of fair value less cost of disposal and classified as level 3 within the fair
value hierarchy. The fair value calculations use cash flows based on detailed brand budgets prepared by management using projected
sales volumes and pricing (net revenue) and projected brand profitability covering a five-year horizon. Thereafter volume decline, pricing
and margin assumptions are extrapolated over the remaining useful life. A tax amortisation benefit factor is then applied to incorporate
the additional value a market participant would derive in an asset acquisition scenario. Corporate costs are allocated to the brand
budgets based on either specific allocations, where appropriate, or based on revenue. The discount rates applied to the definite-lived
brand fair value calculations have been determined by local management based on experience, specific market and brand trends and
pricing and cost expectations.
The below table indicates the key assumptions used in assessing the definite-lived brands for impairment.
2024 2023
Carrying Pre-tax Carrying Pre-tax
amount Volume 5 Year discount rate amount Volume 5 Year discount rate
£m CAGR* % £m CAGR %
Definite-lived intangibles
Newport 20,421 (12.5) % 8.6 20,753 (11.3) % 8.7
Camel 7,696 (12.6) % 8.6 7,822 (12.3) % 8.9
Pall Mall 2,522 (3.0) % 8.8 2,608 (18.8) % 9.4
Natural American Spirit 10,272 (8.1) % 7.9 10,439 (7.6) % 7.9
Total 40,911 41,622
Note:
* Volume five-year CAGR is calculated by reference to the first five years’ annual volumes used in discounted cash flow model against the 2024 baseline.
The above table indicates a marginal decline in volume five-year CAGR compared to 2023 except for Pall Mall which has improved due to
increased promotional support and growth within the branded value segment.
Refer to note 12(e)(vi) for more details on impairment testing in respect of these brands.
295
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
(iv) Cash generating units and information on goodwill impairment testing
In 2024, goodwill was allocated for impairment testing purposes to 17 (2023: 17) individual cash-generating units (CGUs) – one in the U.S.
(2023: one), nine in AME (2023: nine) and seven in APMEA (2023: seven).
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been attributed to the following cash-generating units:
2024 2023
Carrying Pre-tax Carrying Pre-tax
amount discount rate amount discount rate
£m % £m %
Cash-generating unit
Reynolds American 31,491 9.0 30,938 9.6
Europe 5,358 6.7 5,596 6.6
Canada 2,229 9.8 2,386 20.3
Australia 662 7.9 717 7.3
South Africa 186 10.7 189 14.3
Singapore 376 8.4 382 7.4
GTR 249 7.1 253 7.6
Malaysia 187 10.6 217 10.2
Peru 74 8.7 73 12.4
Other 317 8.4 340 6.7
Total 41,129 41,091
Included within ‘Other’ above is goodwill arising on various acquisitions that have been allocated to eight cash-generating units which
are, individually, insignificant. The pre-tax discount rate represents the weighted average pre-tax discount rate.
During 2024, the Group recognised a total impairment charge to goodwill of £39 million (2023: £4,614 million).
The recoverable amounts of all cash-generating units have been determined on a value-in-use basis. The key assumptions for the
recoverable amounts of all units are the projected sales volumes and pricing (net revenues) and long-term growth rates, which directly
impact the cash flows, and the discount rates used in the calculation. The long-term growth rate is used purely for the impairment
testing of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and does not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for
investment proposals or for any other assessments.
Post-tax discount rates were used in the impairment testing, based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, taking into account
the cost of capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made. These adjustments are derived
from external sources and are based on the spread between bonds (or credit default swaps, or similar indicators) issued by the relevant
local (or comparable) government, adjusted for the Group’s own credit market risk. Valuations derived from applying post-tax discount
rates to post-tax cash flows are aligned to those that would arise from applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows. For ease of
use and consistency in application, these results are periodically calibrated into bands based on internationally recognised credit ratings.
This applies to all CGUs with the exception of Reynolds American, for which the discount rate is independently determined based on a
weighted average cost of capital in respect of the U.S. and U.S. market-related premiums, and Malaysia where the discount rate reflects
BAT Malaysia's weighted average cost of capital.
The long-term growth rates and discount rates have been applied to the budgeted cash flows of each cash-generating unit. These cash
flows have been determined by local management based on experience, specific market and brand trends, as well as pricing and cost
expectations. These have been endorsed by Group Management as part of the consolidated Group’s approved budget.
(v) Impairment testing – Goodwill (excluding Reynolds American and Canada)
The value-in-use calculations use cash flows based on detailed financial budgets prepared by Management covering a one-year period
extrapolated over a 10-year horizon with growth of 3% (2023: 3%) in years two to ten, after which a growth rate of 1% (2023: 1%) has been
assumed as the long-term volume decline is more than offset by pricing to drive revenue growth. A 10-year horizon is considered appropriate
based on the Group’s history of profit and cash growth, its well-balanced portfolio of brands and the industry in which it operates.
For the Malaysian cash-generating unit, as a result of regulatory and macro-economic conditions, the above assumptions were amended
to reflect the short- to medium-term plans spanning a period of five years after which a long-term growth rate of -1.4% has been
assumed. During the year, the Malaysian government announced new regulations under the new tobacco control law, the Control of
Smoking Products for Public Health Act, which impact the sale of tobacco and vapour products. As a result of the upcoming regulations,
goodwill associated with the Malaysia CGU has been impaired by £39 million.
Due to difficult trading conditions in South Africa with the growth in illicit trade following the ban of the sale of tobacco products
introduced during the COVID-19 pandemic becoming further entrenched, the Group recognised an impairment charge of £291 million in
2023. No further worsening of conditions has been observed in 2024. Forecasted cash flows continue to support the carrying value of
goodwill with no further indication of impairment.
In 2023, the Group recognised an impairment charge of £24 million in respect of its Peruvian cash-generating unit due to further market
deterioration. As a result of the assessment in 2024, no further deterioration in performance was identified requiring further impairment.
Following the application of a reasonable range of sensitivities to all cash-generating units, there was no reasonably possible scenario
identified that would lead to a potential impairment charge.
296
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
(vi) Impairment testing – Reynolds American
Goodwill and the brand intangibles relating to Reynolds American
Subsequent to the FDA announcement on 28 April 2022 of a proposed product standard to prohibit menthol as a characterising flavour
in cigarettes, the FDA formally submitted the final product standard to the Office of Management and Budget on 18 October 2023.
Following delays, in January 2025, the new Trump administration withdrew the rule from the Office of Management and Budget and
it is currently held pending the new Trump administration’s reconsideration of regulations advanced by the previous administration.
Management notes that the timetable for any final product standard remains uncertain.
On 21 June 2022, the FDA announced plans to develop a proposed product standard that would establish a maximum nicotine level in
cigarettes and certain other combustible tobacco products to reduce addictiveness. On 15 January 2025, in the final days of the outgoing
Biden administration, the FDA issued a proposed product standard whereby the agency would limit nicotine levels in cigarettes following
a two-year effective date from publication of any final rule. The proposed rule is currently subject to public comment, but may be de-
prioritised by the new Trump administration as it considers all proposed regulations advanced by the previous administration.
Management notes that the FDA proposed rule does not itself constitute restrictions on nicotine levels in cigarettes, and any proposed
rule must still go through the established comprehensive U.S. rule-making process, the timetable and outcome for which remains
uncertain. Management also notes that it is not known whether or when this proposed rule will be finalised, and, if adopted, whether
the final rule will be the same as or similar to the proposed rule.
In December 2022, the sale of most tobacco products with characterising flavours (including menthol) other than tobacco were banned
in the state of California. The impact of the ban in California has been reflected in the cash flow forecasts used in the impairment model.
The Group has a long-standing track record of managing regulatory shifts and, in the event of regulatory change, the Group remains
confident in its ability to navigate that environment successfully.
During 2023, evolving insights indicated that the decline in industry volume would be higher than previously forecasted due to the
continued macro-economic headwinds in the U.S. combined with an acceleration of the Vapour category growth. This growth is driven
by combustibles consumers turning to Vapour devices (specifically through the use of illicit single-use products). Due to the continued
challenging trading conditions in the U.S., a detailed external study was commissioned to assist Management with an independent view
of the potential forecast performance for the market. This review assisted Management in preparing the Group’s five-year forecast of
the U.S. market, with further extrapolation based upon the estimated performance of the brands.
Following the review and as a result of the higher forecast combustibles market decline as described above, a total impairment of
£27,291 million in respect of the U.S. CGU was identified in 2023.
In 2024, in line with the approach used since 2022, the value-in-use calculation for the total U.S. CGU and the fair value calculations for
the brand intangibles have been determined based on probability weighted scenarios to derive a risk-adjusted cash flow forecast applied
within the valuations. These scenarios incorporate varying assumptions on potential timing for a final product standard to prohibit
menthol as a characterising flavour in cigarettes becoming effective. However, the impact of the timing of any potential menthol ban
was not deemed to be a key assumption.
The cash flow forecasts for the indefinite-lived brands, as described in note 12(e)(ii) above, have been incorporated in the probability
weighted scenarios used in the Reynolds American goodwill model. Similarly, the model also incorporates a five-year risk-adjusted cash
flow forecast for all of the definite-lived brands, based on detailed brand budgets prepared by Management using projected sales
volumes and pricing (net revenue) and projected brand profitability which assumes a long-term volume decline of cigarettes generally
offset by pricing. After this forecast, a probability weighted growth rate of 1.0% (2023: 1.0%) has been assumed for the Reynolds
American cash-generating unit.
For the Grizzly brand impairment test, a long-term growth rate of 1.0% (2023: 1.0%) is also applied. Following update of the recoverable
amount based on the fair value less cost of disposal for Grizzly, Management concluded that the carrying value of the brand is supported
by cash flows generated by the combined Traditional Oral and newly launched Grizzly Modern Oral product portfolio. There is significant
judgement with regard to assumptions and estimates involved in the forecasting of future cash flows, which form the basis of the fair
value calculation, and this is particularly true given the recent launch of the Grizzly Modern Oral product. A detailed external study was
commissioned to assist Management with an independent view of the potential impacts on volume forecasts of cross-category use
of Modern Oral products by Traditional Oral consumers to inform our forecast for the evolution of industry volumes for both Traditional
and Modern Oral and the potential share of market for the latter that a Grizzly product offering can achieve. Management consider a 3%
reduction in the five-year volume CAGR for Grizzly to be reasonably possible sensitivity scenario and this would result in an impairment
of £0.9 billion.
In order to support the long-term growth rates for Camel Snus, a cash flow forecast has also been prepared on a discrete basis, reflecting
the revised useful economic life from 1 January 2025. This implies a long-term growth rate of -6.9% (2023: 1.0%) for Camel Snus.
As explained in note 12(e)(iii), the impairment test calculations for Newport, Camel, Pall Mall and Natural American Spirit use cash flows
based on detailed brand budgets prepared by management over a five-year horizon after which volume decline, pricing and margin
assumptions are extrapolated over the remaining useful life.
As indicated in the table below, the Newport brand fair value is highly sensitive to changes in the volume assumptions. Management
believe a decrease in volume year-on-year in the discrete period by an additional 1% is a reasonably possible change. This would result
in an impairment of £1.3 billion.
297
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The excess of recoverable amount over the carrying value (headroom) of the Reynolds American cash-generating unit and the Newport,
Camel, Pall Mall, Natural American Spirit and Grizzly brand intangibles would be reduced to nil if the following individual changes were
made to the key assumptions used in the impairment model.
Reynolds Natural
American American
goodwill Newport Camel Pall Mall Spirit Grizzly
Current headroom £m 19,293 819 1,926 817 1,620 1,020
Assumptions:
Decrease in volume year-on-year in the discrete
period by an additional * % (0.4) (2.4) (3.7) (1.2) (2.0)
Increase in pre-tax discount rate by % 1.9 0.5 3.9 6.3 1.6 0.7
Decrease in long-term growth rate by** % (1.8) (0.8)
Notes:
* Brand Intangibles only. Volume sensitivity results in a proportional reduction in both net revenue and direct costs with no impact to operating margin %. Fixed overhead cost allocations
remain flat. This demonstrates a year-on-year decrease in operating cash flow for the discrete forecast years.
** Goodwill and Grizzly indefinite-lived brand intangible only
(vii) Impairment testing – Canada
Goodwill relating to Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd (ITCAN)
In March 2019, ITCAN obtained an Initial Order from the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granting it protection under the Companies’
Creditors Arrangement Act (CCAA). Under a confidential court supervised mediation process, ITCAN has been negotiating a possible
settlement of all of its outstanding tobacco litigation in Canada while continuing to run its business in the normal course.
As explained in note 24, on 17 October 2024, the court-appointed mediator and monitor filed a proposed plan of compromise and
arrangement in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice. Substantially similar proposed plans were also filed for Rothmans, Benson &
Hedges Inc. (RBH, a subsidiary of Philip Morris International Inc.) and JTI-Macdonald Corp. (JTIM, a subsidiary of Japan Tobacco
International) (collectively, the Proposed Plans).
Under the Proposed Plans, if ultimately sanctioned and implemented, ITCAN, RBH and JTIM (the Companies) would pay an aggregate
settlement amount of CAD$32.5 billion (£18.0 billion). This amount would be funded by:
–an upfront payment equal to all the Companies’ cash and cash equivalents on hand (including investments held at fair value) plus
certain court deposits (subject to an aggregate industry withholding of CAD$750 million (£416 million)) plus 85% of any cash tax
refunds that may be received by the Companies on account of the upfront payments; and
–annual payments based on a percentage (initially 85%, reducing over time) of each of the Companies’ net income after taxes, based on amounts
generated from all sources, excluding New Categories, until the aggregate settlement amount is paid. The performance of ITCAN’s New
Categories (including Vapour products and nicotine pouches) is not included in the basis for calculating the annual payments.
These Proposed Plans, if ultimately sanctioned and implemented, would resolve ITCAN’s outstanding tobacco litigation in Canada and
provide a full and comprehensive release to ITCAN, BAT p.l.c. and all related companies for all tobacco claims in Canada.
On 31 October 2024, the court hearing to rule on the Claims Procedure Orders and Meeting Orders took place and these were granted.
In accordance with the Meeting Order, a creditors' meeting was held on 12 December 2024 and the Proposed Plans were approved by
the requisite majorities of the creditors. A sanction hearing took place between 29-31 January 2025. During the sanction hearing, the
Court was asked to sanction the Proposed Plans. The Court’s decision is currently pending and the stays are extended until 3 March
2025, or such time as the Court's decision on the sanction order is released.
The value-in-use calculations have been prepared based on a five-year cash flow forecast, after which a long-term rate of decline of
-3.65% (2023: -2.5%) on the underlying business is assumed. In line with the requirements of IAS36, the value-in-use derived from the
forecast cash flows has been adjusted to include the book value of the provision recognised in respect of the settlement agreement and
the liability is included within the carrying amount of the CGU for the purposes of the impairment test.
A pre-tax discount rate of 9.8% (2023: 20.3%) has been assumed. The change in rate is driven by the crystallisation of the liability related
to the payments under the settlement plan, whereas in 2023 and previous years the risk associated with the ongoing mediation process
was adjusted in the discount rate. Further information on the Québec Class Actions and CCAA can be found in note 31. Further details
on the provision for the liability associated with the Proposed Plans and the discount rate applied to such provision, which differs to that
applied for the impairment assessment, can be found in note 24.
The excess of value-in-use earnings over the carrying values (headroom) of the ITCAN goodwill would be reduced to nil if the following
individual changes, none of which are considered reasonably possible by Management, were made to the key assumptions used in the
impairment model.
Canada
goodwill
%
Assumptions
Decrease in revenue by* 21.3
Decrease in long-term growth rate by 10.5
Increase in pre-tax discount rate by 8.0
Note:
* Revenue sensitivities are performed in isolation and do not include the removal of the corresponding variable cost of sales. This demonstrates a decrease in revenue in each of the
forecast years.
298
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
13 Property, plant and equipment
(a) Overview of property, plant and equipment, including right-of-use assets
2024
Plant, Plant, Assets in the
Freehold Leasehold equipment and equipment and course of
property property other owned other leased construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January
Cost 1,418 895 5,702 375 654 9,044
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (437) (443) (3,360) (221) (4,461)
Net book value at 1 January 981 452 2,342 154 654 4,583
Differences on exchange (29) (26) (139) (4) (37) (235)
Additions
– right-of-use assets — 152 — 105 — 257
– separately acquired — — 23 — 469 492
Reallocations 87 13 385 — (485) —
Depreciation (35) (97) (291) (74) — (497)
Impairment (89) (41) (41) (2) — (173)
Right-of-use assets − reassessments,
modifications and terminations — 8 — 2 — 10
Disposals (48) (3) (6) — — (57)
Net reclassifications as held-for-sale — (1) — — — (1)
31 December
Cost 1,360 888 5,566 437 601 8,852
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (493) (431) (3,293) (256) (4,473)
Net book value at 31 December 867 457 2,273 181 601 4,379
2023
Plant, Plant, Assets in the
Freehold Leasehold equipment and equipment and course of
property property other owned other leased construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January
Cost 1,475 940 5,962 362 767 9,506
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (473) (474) (3,507) (185) (4,639)
Net book value at 1 January 1,002 466 2,455 177 767 4,867
Differences on exchange (41) (25) (135) (8) (43) (252)
Additions
– right-of-use assets — 112 — 84 — 196
– separately acquired — — 20 — 460 480
Reallocations 69 24 431 — (524) —
Depreciation (34) (102) (293) (77) — (506)
Impairment — (5) (131) (9) (6) (151)
Right-of-use assets − reassessments,
modifications and terminations — (15) — (13) — (28)
Disposals (1) (3) (5) — — (9)
Net reclassifications as held-for-sale (14) — — — — (14)
31 December
Cost 1,418 895 5,702 375 654 9,044
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (437) (443) (3,360) (221) (4,461)
Net book value at 31 December 981 452 2,342 154 654 4,583
Refer to notes 4 and 7 for more information on property, plant and equipment impairments.
As mentioned in note 5(a), the Group completed certain sale and leaseback transactions. The cash flow effect of these transactions
in 2024 is £37 million (2023: £15 million).
Included in additions in 2024 is an amount of £30 million (2023: £34 million) related to sustainability as explained in note 33.
The Group has £67 million of future contractual commitments (2023: £60 million) related to property, plant and equipment.
299
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
(b) Right-of-use assets
In accordance with IFRS 16 Leases, the right-of-use assets related to leased properties have been included in the asset class ‘Leasehold
Property’ (note 13(c)) and other right-of-use assets have been reported under ‘Plant, equipment and other leased’.
The Group leases various offices, warehouses, retail spaces, equipment and vehicles through its subsidiaries across the globe.
Arrangements are entered into in the course of ordinary business, and lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and
contain a wide range of different terms and conditions reflecting local commercial practice. The lease agreements do not impose
any covenants other than the security interests in the leased assets that are held by the lessor. Leased assets may not be used as
security for borrowing purposes.
Assets representing ‘plant, equipment and other leased’ relate to leases of various assets including industrial equipment and distribution
vehicles in Brazil, China, Canada, Mexico, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, the U.S. and other countries.
(c) Leasehold property
As of 31 December 2024, the Group holds £95 million (2023: £147 million) of leasehold properties acquired and another £362 million (2023:
£305 million) of right-of-use leased properties.
Assets representing ‘leasehold property’ relate to leases in respect of offices, retail space, warehouses and manufacturing facilities
occupied by Group subsidiaries and include property leases with lease terms of more than five years in Bangladesh, Brazil, China,
Germany, Italy, Pakistan, Romania, Singapore, Vietnam and the U.S., amongst other countries. In addition, capitalised expenditure
representing leasehold improvements is included in this asset class.
2024 2023
£m £m
Leasehold land and property comprises
- net book value of long leasehold 22 18
- net book value of short leasehold 435 434
457 452
2024
Net book value Differences on Depreciation Other net Net book value
Leasehold property net book value movements for the year at 1 January exchange and impairment movements* at 31 December
ended 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m
- Property acquired (IAS 16) 147 (7) (50) 5 95
- Right-of-use properties (IFRS 16) 305 (19) (88) 164 362
452 (26) (138) 169 457
2023
Net book value Differences on Depreciation and Other net Net book value
Leasehold property net book value movements for the year at 1 January exchange impairment movements* at 31 December
ended 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m
- Property acquired (IAS 16) 152 (10) (12) 17 147
- Right-of-use properties (IFRS 16) 314 (15) (95) 101 305
466 (25) (107) 118 452
Note:
* Property acquired (IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment) other net movements for leasehold improvements represent additions (directly acquired and/or transferred from assets in the
course of construction) net of disposals, whereas other net movements for right-of-use properties (IFRS 16) relate to new leases net of reassessments, modifications and terminations
as reported in the Property, plant and equipment movement table in note 13(a).
(d) Freehold property
As of 31 December 2024, the Group owns freehold property amounting to £867 million (2023: £981 million), representing factories,
warehouses and office buildings together with adjoining land, mainly in the U.S., the UK, Bangladesh, Indonesia and South Korea.
2024 2023
£m £m
Cost of freehold land within freehold property on which no depreciation is provided 151 238
The reduction in the cost of freehold land is mainly due to the impairment of the Group’s head office in London, as mentioned on note 4.
300
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
14 Investments in associates and joint ventures
2024 2023
£m £m
1 January 1,970 2,020
Total comprehensive income (note 9) 559 473
Dividends (447) (559)
Additions (note 27(b)(ii)) 48 13
Disposals (note 27(b)(i)) (227) —
Other equity movements (1) 23
31 December 1,902 1,970
Non-current assets 1,230 1,331
Current assets 1,205 1,168
Non-current liabilities (97) (78)
Current liabilities (436) (451)
1,902 1,970
ITC Ltd. (Group’s share of the market value is £14,357 million (2023: £15,767 million)) 1,762 1,851
Other listed associates (Group’s share of the market value is £224 million (2023: £175 million)) 98 64
Unlisted associates 42 55
1,902 1,970
The principal associate undertaking of the Group is ITC Ltd. (ITC). Included within the dividends amount of £447 million
(2023: £559 million) are £434 million (2023: £545 million) attributable to dividends declared by ITC.
ITC Ltd.
ITC is an Indian conglomerate based in Kolkata with interests in cigarettes, paper and packaging, agri-business, other fast-moving goods (e.g.
confectionery, branded apparel, personal care, stationery and safety matches) and, up until the date of demerger (as described below), hotels.
BAT’s interest in ITC is 25.45%.
ITC prepares accounts on a quarterly basis with a 31 March year-end. As permitted by IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures,
results up to 30 September 2024 have been used in applying the equity method. This is driven by the availability of information at the half-year,
to be consistent with the treatment in the Group’s interim accounts. Any further information available after the date used for reporting
purposes is reviewed and any material items adjusted for in the final results. The latest published information available is at 31 December 2024.
2024 2023
£m £m
Non-current assets 4,456 4,261
Current assets 4,152 3,622
Non-current liabilities (306) (240)
Current liabilities (1,376) (1,267)
6,926 6,376
Group’s share of ITC Ltd. (2024: 25.45%; 2023: 29.02%) 1,762 1,851
On 13 March 2024, the Group announced the divestment of 436,851,457 ordinary shares held in ITC, representing 12% of the Group's
equity stake (the equivalent of 3.5% of ITC's ordinary shares). Refer to note 27(b)(i) for further details.
On 24 July 2023, ITC announced a proposed demerger of its ‘Hotels Business’ under a scheme of arrangement by which 60% of the
newly incorporated entity would be held directly by ITC's shareholders proportionate to their shareholding in ITC. In January 2025, ITC
Hotels Limited was listed and commenced trading on the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE).
The Group’s direct stake in ITC Hotels Limited is 15%.
Organigram
On 11 March 2021, the Group announced a strategic collaboration agreement with Organigram Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of publicly
traded Organigram Holdings Inc. (collectively, Organigram). Under the terms of the transaction, a Group subsidiary acquired a 19.90%
equity stake in Organigram Holdings Inc. (listed on both the Nasdaq and Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol ‘OGI’) to become its
largest shareholder. Due to subsequent acquisitions carried out by Organigram and the Group’s additional investments, referred to
below, the Group’s effective interest in Organigram for equity accounting at the end of 2024 was 35.09% (2023: 18.79%). The Group’s
share of the fair value of net assets acquired included £49 million of intangibles and £30 million of goodwill, representing a strategic
premium to enter the legal cannabis market in North America. Organigram prepares accounts on a quarterly basis with a 30 September
year-end. As permitted by IAS 28, results up to 30 September 2024 have been used in applying the equity method.
During 2023 Management reassessed the carrying value of the Group’s investment in Organigram Holdings Inc. due to a reduction in
the entity's share price being identified as a trigger for a detailed impairment assessment to be undertaken. As part of this exercise,
management took into consideration Organigram’s share price, internal value-in-use calculations, external trading multiples and broker
forecasts. As a result of this analysis, it was concluded that an impairment charge of £36 million (or £34 million net of tax), was required
against the carrying value of the investment. No further impairments have been recognised to date and the carrying value of this
investment as at 31 December 2024 was £65 million (2023: £30 million). Management will continue to monitor the carrying value,
in line with IAS 36, over the course of future periods.
301
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
In November 2023, the Group announced the signing of an agreement for a further investment in Organigram Holdings Inc. (Organigram).
At 31 December 2023, the proposed investment of CAD$125 million (£74 million) was subject to customary conditions, including necessary
approvals by the shareholders of Organigram, which was given on 18 January 2024. On 24 January 2024, BAT made the first tranche
investment of CAD$42 million (£24 million) acquiring a further 12,893,175 common shares of Organigram at a price of CAD$3.22 per share.
On 30 August 2024, BAT made the second tranche investment of CAD$42 million (£24 million) acquiring a further 4,429,740 common
shares and 8,463,435 preferred shares of Organigram at a price of CAD$3.22 per share. Goodwill of £5 million has been recognised
following these investments which have been recognised net of fair value of the embedded derivative in relation to the investment
agreement. Subject to conditions, the remaining 12,893,175 shares subscribed for shall be issued at the same price as the previous two
tranches by the end of February 2025. Under the terms of agreement, the Group’s voting rights are restricted to 30%.
As a result of Organigram’s acquisition of Motifs Lab Ltd on 6 December 2024, the Group’s ownership is diluted to 30.6%. The accounting
impact of such dilution is not material to the Group. Please refer to note 27(b)(ii) for further information on the acquisition.
Charlotte’s Web Holdings Inc.
In November 2022, the Group announced a £48 million investment in Charlotte’s Web Holdings, Inc. (Charlotte's Web). Based in
Colorado, USA, and listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, Charlotte’s Web holds a prominent position in innovative hemp extract
wellness products. The Group’s investment has been made via a seven-year convertible debenture which is convertible at the Group’s
discretion into a non-controlling equity stake in Charlotte’s Web of around 19.9%. As part of the investment agreement, the Group has
the right to appoint directors to the Board of Charlotte’s Web. However, given the investment does not give the Group any current right
to a share of the earnings or net assets of the investee, the investment has been classified as an investment at fair value through profit
and loss (see note 18). On conversion of the loan note, the Group would equity account for its investment.
Yemen associates
In 2022, the Group decided to cease business activities altogether in Yemen, including participating in the management of the Group's
associates, due to the challenging operating environment in the country.
15 Retirement benefit schemes
The Group's subsidiary undertakings in multiple jurisdictions operate various funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes, including
pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes, and defined contribution pension schemes, with the Group’s most significant
arrangements being in the U.S., the UK, Canada, Germany, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Together, schemes in these territories
account for over 90% of the total underlying obligations of the Group’s defined benefit arrangements and over 70% of the current
service cost.
Pension obligations consist mainly of final salary pension schemes which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level
of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on members’ length of service and their salary in the final years leading
up to retirement. In addition, the Group operates several healthcare benefit schemes, of which the most significant are in the U.S. and
Canada. The majority of defined benefit schemes allow for the future accrual of benefits. With the exception of arrangements required
under local regulations, most of the Group’s arrangements are closed to new entrants.
The liabilities arising in respect of defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally
qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. It is Group policy that all schemes are formally valued at least every three
years. The costs of such plans are recognised in the Group income statement within operating profit as part of employment costs.
Service costs are spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees with past service costs or credits, the impact of
settlements and curtailments, and the net interest on the net defined benefit deficit or surplus recognised in the periods in which they
arise. Actuarial gains and losses and surplus restrictions are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. Benefits provided
through defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as payments fall due.
Through its defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare benefit schemes, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, including:
–Asset volatility: The scheme liabilities are calculated using discount rates set by reference to bond yields. If scheme assets
underperform this yield, e.g. due to stock market volatility, this may create a deficit. However, most funded schemes hold a proportion
of assets which are expected to outperform bonds in the long-term, and the majority of schemes by value are subject to local
regulations regarding funding deficits. In addition, schemes in the UK and Canada have purchased insurance contracts which exactly
match the valuation volatility of all or part of the scheme liabilities.
–Changes in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an
increase in the value of the schemes’ bond holdings, ‘buy-in’ insurance assets or other hedging instruments.
–Inflation risk: Some of the Group’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although
in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place in the scheme rules, while some assets and derivatives provide
specific inflation protection.
–Life expectancy: The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life
expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. Assumptions regarding mortality and mortality improvements are regularly
reviewed in line with actuarial tables and scheme specific experience.
The Group has an internal body, the Pensions Executive Committee (PEC), that is chaired by the Group Finance Director. The PEC sets
and oversees a set of philosophies, policies and practices in respect of post-employment benefits including, but not limited to, design,
funding, investment strategy, risk management and governance. It also reviews significant changes to defined benefit schemes in the
countries with the most significant liabilities, and defined contribution schemes in the countries with the most significant costs.
Significant changes to defined benefit arrangements include scheme closures to future accrual and risk management exercises such as
the ‘buy-in’ and ‘buy-out’ transactions referred to below.
A ‘buy-out’ transaction is where a pension scheme derecognises all (or part) of its liabilities, removing it from the balance sheet, by
permanently transferring those obligations from the sponsoring employer to a third-party provider and eliminating all further legal
or constructive obligation to the pension scheme or to the sponsoring employer. By contrast, with a ‘buy-in’ transaction the scheme
liabilities remain on the balance sheet and the sponsoring employer remains responsible for the fulfilment of the pension obligations.
However, these obligations are de-risked through the purchase of an insurance product designed to match the underlying cash flows
of the pension liability reducing the risks associated with improved longevity and interest and discount rate movements. The Group
consequently benefits from the ‘buy-in’ as it reduces the individual scheme’s reliance on the Group for future cash funding requirements.
302
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
All of the Group’s arrangements, including funded schemes where formal trusts or equivalents are required, have been developed
and are operated in accordance with local practices and regulations where applicable in the countries concerned. Responsibility for
the governance of these schemes, including specific investment decisions and funding contribution schedules, generally lies with
the trustees, or equivalent bodies, of each arrangement. The trustees will usually consist of representatives appointed by both the
sponsoring company and the beneficiaries.
The funded arrangements in the Group have policies on investment management, including strategies over a preferred long-term
investment profile, and schemes in certain territories including Canada and the Netherlands manage their bond portfolios to match
the weighted average duration of scheme liabilities. In addition, as noted below, certain arrangements in the UK and Canada have been
de-risked through the purchase of insurance policies. The majority of funded schemes are subject to local regulations regarding funding
requirements. Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined after consultation with the respective trustees and actuaries
of the individual externally funded schemes, and after taking into account regulatory requirements in each territory. The Group’s
contributions to funded defined benefit schemes in 2025 in total are expected to be £36 million compared to £30 million in 2024.
U.S.
In the U.S., the main funded pension plan is the Reynolds and Affiliates Pension Plan (RAPP) which was formed at the end of 2022
through a merger of the Reynolds American Retirement Plan (PEP) and the Retirement Income Plan for Certain RAI Affiliates (Affiliates).
The only funded healthcare scheme is the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation Welfare & Fringe Benefit Plan. Each of the above
were established with corporate trustees that are required to run the plan in accordance with the plan’s rules and to comply with all
relevant legislation, including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The corporate trustees act as custodians with a
committee of local management acting in a fiduciary capacity with regard to investment decisions, risk mitigation and administration of
the arrangements. Contributions to the various funded plans are agreed with the named fiduciary, scheme actuaries and the committee
of local management after taking account of statutory requirements including the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended. Through
its U.S. subsidiaries, the Group may make significant contributions, either as required by statutory requirements or at the discretion of
the Group, with the aim of maintaining a funding status of at least 90% and remaining fully funded in the long-term. During 2024, the
Group contributed £10 million (2023: £2 million) to its funded pension and post-retirement plans in the U.S. The Group does not expect to
make significant contributions in 2025.
With effect from 31 December 2024, accruals for salaried U.S. employees who participate in the qualified (RAPP) and non-qualified
pension plans has ceased. A past service credit of £18 million was recognised on the difference between the salary increase assumption
for active members and the inflation assumption for deferred members at the date of the plan amendment and curtailment of benefits.
For funded plans in the U.S., the trustees employ a risk mitigation strategy which seeks to balance pension plan returns with a reasonable
level of funded status volatility. Based on this framework, the asset allocation has two primary components. The first component is the
hedging portfolio, which primarily consists of extended duration fixed income holdings (typically U.S. Government and investment grade
corporate bonds) and, to a lesser extent, derivatives used to match the majority of the interest rate risk associated with the benefit
obligations, thereby reducing expected funded status volatility. The second component is the return-seeking portfolio, which is designed
to enhance portfolio returns. The return-seeking portfolio is broadly diversified.
On 7 October 2021, the Group concluded a transaction affecting portions of the membership of the former PEP and former Affiliates
plans referred to above, allowing the Group to fully settle portions of its liability by transferring the obligations to the Metropolitan Tower
Life Insurance Company in a buy-out. Approximately US$1.9 billion (£1.4 billion) of plan liabilities were removed from the balance sheet,
resulting in a settlement gain of £35 million. A further partial buy-out affecting portions of the membership of the former PEP and former
Affiliates plans was concluded on 7 June 2022, with approximately US$1.6 billion (£1.3 billion) of plan liabilities removed from the balance
sheet, resulting in a settlement gain of £16 million.
At 31 December 2024, the Reynolds and Affiliates Pension Plan was reporting a surplus under IAS 19 in total of £507 million (2023: £516
million). Under the rules of this plan, after assuming the gradual settlement of the plan liabilities over the lives of the arrangements, the
majority of any surplus would be repurposed for other existing or replacement benefit plans. Residual amounts returnable to the Group
in the event of a termination or other distribution would trigger an excise charge and accordingly, a surplus restriction of £14 million
(2023: £nil million) has been recognised.
United Kingdom
In the UK, the main pension arrangement is the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund (UKPF), which is established under trust law
and has a corporate trustee that is required to run the scheme in accordance with the UKPF’s Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with
the Pension Scheme Act 1993, Pensions Act 1995, Pensions Act 2004 and all other relevant legislation. With effect from 1 July 2020, UKPF
was closed to further accrual of benefits with all active members becoming deferred members.
The formal triennial actuarial valuation of the UKPF was last carried out with an effective date of 31 March 2023. This showed that UKPF
had a surplus of £111 million on a Technical Provisions basis, in accordance with the statutory funding objective. Under IAS 19, this was
reported as a net retirement benefit asset of £169 million (2023: £184 million). Under the UKPF scheme rules, the Trustee does not have
a unilateral power to commence a wind up of UKPF, and the Group has recognised a surplus as an unconditional right to a refund
assuming the gradual settlement of the UKPF liabilities over the life of the scheme with any future surplus returnable to the Group at the
end of the life of the scheme. Under current tax legislation, a charge of 25% (2023: 35%) would arise on the gross amount of any
authorised surplus payment and the potential impact of this has been accounted for as part of the Group’s deferred tax liability.
On 16 March 2023, the Schedule of Contributions was amended to remove any funding commitment for the foreseeable future, which
was reconfirmed in the current Schedule of Contributions dated 17 December 2023. Consequently, no contributions were made to UKPF
in 2024 or 2023 and no contributions are expected in 2025.
On 26 October 2022, the Group entered into an agreement with the Trustee to provide a temporary liquidity facility capped at £40 million
for up to two years. The facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2023 and on 28 March 2024 the facility was cancelled.
As part of its risk management strategy, on 31 May 2019, the UK Trustee entered into a buy-in agreement with Pension Insurance
Corporation plc (PIC) to acquire an insurance policy with the intent of matching a specific part of UKPF’s future cash flows arising from
the accrued pension liabilities of retired and deferred members and improving the security to the UKPF and its members. On 19 May
2021, the Trustee entered into an agreement with PIC to acquire a second buy-in policy which involved the transfer of £383 million of
assets held by UKPF to PIC, and on 26 October 2022, a third and final buy-in policy was acquired with PIC. £198 million of assets were
transferred immediately with £35 million of the premium deferred and subsequently settled in 2023.
303
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
As a result of these transactions, approximately 92% of the assets held by UKPF (2023: 92%) are represented by the buy-in contracts,
covering 100% of UKPF’s retirement liabilities (2023: 100%). On an IAS 19 basis, the subsequent fair value of the insurance policies
matches the present value of the liabilities being insured. For the residual assets held by UKPF, the current allocation is broadly split as 47%
in return seeking assets and 53% in liquid assets. The return seeking portfolio is invested in illiquid assets which, in the normal course of
events, will wind down naturally over time, with their value being realised as the investments mature. The Trustee reviewed the
investment strategy following the completion of the third and final buy-in contract with PIC in October 2022. The residual liquid assets
were transferred to a Liquidity Fund to support the ongoing and anticipated expenses of the UKPF. The strategy remains consistent with
their ultimate target to further reduce UKPF's exposure to asset volatility.
In June 2023, the High Court handed down a decision in the case of Virgin Media Limited v NTL Pension Trustees II Limited and Ors.
This decision has potential but uncertain implications in the UK for the validity of certain amendments to contracted-out arrangements
between 1997 and 2016 where the requisite actuarial confirmation was not obtained at the time amendments were made. A plan
amendment to a contracted-out scheme without appropriate actuarial confirmation could be void. In response to this, the UKPF Trustee
has undertaken limited investigation into this matter pending further developments and opinions from the Courts in early 2025. As at
31 December 2024, management have not identified any benefit uncertainties for which the potential impact would need to be
considered and will continue to monitor developments during 2025 and beyond.
Other territories
Payments made to pensioners by the operating companies in Germany, net of income on scheme assets, are deemed to be company
contributions to the Contractual Trust Arrangements and are anticipated to be around £11 million in 2025 and £36 million per annum for
the four years after that. Contributions to pension schemes in Canada, Netherlands and Switzerland in total are anticipated to be around
£6 million in 2025 and then also around £3 million per annum for the four years after that.
For schemes in the Netherlands reporting surpluses of £77 million (2023: £44 million), these surpluses have been recognised as an
unconditional right to a refund assuming the gradual settlement of the pension liabilities over the life of the scheme, with any future surplus
returnable to the Group at the end of the life of the scheme, and similarly for the surplus relating to schemes in Germany of £103 million
(2023: £123 million). For schemes in surplus in Canada of £34 million (2023: £33 million), the economic benefit has been calculated as a
combination of the expected level of administration expenses which may be charged to the plan assets in accordance with the plan rules,
which economically represents a potential surplus refund, and the value of the employer reserve account as defined in legislation, which
represents a potential reduction in contributions on an ongoing basis or a surplus refund at the end of the life of the scheme.
On 14 November 2023, the Group through its Canadian subsidiaries entered into a buy-in agreement with two insurers to acquire
insurance policies that operate as assets of its second largest Canadian scheme, the Imperial Tobacco Corporate Pension Plan
(Corporate Plan), by transferring plan assets of CAD$194 million (£114 million). The transaction was met entirely from the pension plan
assets with no further funding required from the Group. The buy-in covered all the Corporate Plan’s liabilities in relation to pensioners
and deferred members as well as the pensions accrued up to 31 December 2022 for active members. The Group consequently benefits
from the buy-in as it reduces the Corporate Plan’s reliance on the Group for future cash funding requirements. Previously, on
2 September 2021, the Group entered into a buy-in agreement in respect of its largest Canadian scheme, the Imasco Pension Fund
Society Plan (Society Plan), by transferring plan assets of CAD$766 million (£451 million). The buy-in covered all the Society Plan’s
liabilities in relation to pensioners and deferred members as well as the pensions accrued up to 31 December 2020 for active members.
On 1 October 2024, the Group concluded a transaction to transfer all of the remaining assets and liabilities of the scheme associated
with the Group’s Groningen factory, which closed in 2022, allowing the Group to fully settle these obligations by transfer to an insurance
company, Nationale-Nederlanden, in a buy-out arrangement. Approximately €235 million (£199 million) of plan liabilities were removed
from the balance sheet.
Unfunded arrangements
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee administered funds, however, there are also a number of unfunded schemes where
the sponsoring company meets the benefit payment obligation as it falls due, including UK-based Defined Benefit and Defined
Contribution Unapproved Unfunded Retirement Benefit Schemes (DB UURBS and DC UURBS respectively). The DC UURBS credits
accrued in the year are increased in line with the Company’s Weighted Average Cost of Debt and the scheme is therefore treated as
a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19. For unfunded pension schemes in the U.S. and UK, 53% of the liabilities reported at year-end are
expected to be settled by the Group within 10 years, 29% between 10 and 20 years, 13% between 20 and 30 years, and 5% thereafter.
For unfunded healthcare schemes in the U.S. and Canada, 71% of the liabilities reported at year-end are expected to be settled by the
Group within 10 years, 23% between 10 and 20 years, 5% between 20 and 30 years, and 1% thereafter.
304
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (5,560) (6,267) (145) (150) (5,705) (6,417)
Fair value of funded scheme assets 6,472 7,172 140 145 6,612 7,317
912 905 (5) (5) 907 900
Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses (56) (40) — — (56) (40)
856 865 (5) (5) 851 860
Present value of unfunded scheme liabilities (358) (380) (376) (405) (734) (785)
498 485 (381) (410) 117 75
The above net asset/(liability) is recognised in the balance sheet as follows:
– retirement benefit scheme liabilities (434) (467) (386) (414) (820) (881)
– retirement benefit scheme assets 932 952 5 4 937 956
498 485 (381) (410) 117 75
The net assets of funded pension schemes by territory are as follows:
Liabilities Assets Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
– U.S. (1,380) (1,439) 1,843 1,890 463 451
– UK (1,942) (2,132) 2,109 2,315 167 183
– Germany (695) (741) 798 863 103 122
– Canada (499) (556) 534 594 35 38
– Netherlands (465) (736) 542 780 77 44
– Switzerland (243) (273) 267 295 24 22
– Rest of Group (336) (390) 379 435 43 45
Funded schemes (5,560) (6,267) 6,472 7,172 912 905
Of the Group’s unfunded pension schemes, 47% (2023: 48%) relate to arrangements in the UK and 38% (2023: 38%) relate to
arrangements in the U.S., while 87% (2023: 86%) of the Group’s unfunded healthcare arrangements relate to arrangements in the U.S.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit schemes
Service cost
– current service cost 37 36 1 1 38 37
– past service (credit)/cost, curtailments
and settlements (18) (7) — 1 (18) (6)
Net interest on the net defined benefit
liability
– interest on scheme liabilities 288 315 28 32 316 347
– interest on scheme assets (312) (345) (8) (9) (320) (354)
– interest on unrecognised funded scheme
surpluses 3 4 — — 3 4
(2) 3 21 25 19 28
Defined contribution schemes 96 80 — — 96 80
Total amount recognised in the income
statement (note 3) 94 83 21 25 115 108
Included in current service cost in 2024 is £11 million (2023: £10 million) of administration costs. Current service cost is stated after
netting employee contributions, where applicable.
305
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The movements in scheme liabilities are as follows:
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value at 1 January 6,647 6,697 555 615 7,202 7,312
Differences on exchange (127) (153) 5 (34) (122) (187)
Current service cost 37 36 1 1 38 37
Past service (credit)/cost and settlements (221) (67) — 1 (221) (66)
Interest on scheme liabilities 288 315 28 32 316 347
Contributions by scheme members 2 2 — — 2 2
Benefits paid (470) (484) (54) (52) (524) (536)
Actuarial (gains)/losses
– arising from changes in demographic
assumptions (13) (28) — — (13) (28)
– arising from changes in financial
assumptions (239) 268 (6) 9 (245) 277
Experience losses/(gains) 14 61 (8) (17) 6 44
Present value at 31 December 5,918 6,647 521 555 6,439 7,202
Changes in financial assumptions principally relate to discount rate movements in both years, offset by changes in inflation. Experience
losses/(gains) relates to variations from previous assumptions for inflationary increases for pensions-in-payment and deferred pensions
as well as adjustments for membership data. Past service (credit)/cost and settlements in the table above for 2024 includes amounts
relating to the cessation of accruals for salaried employees in the U.S. and the buy-out of the Groningen liabilities in the Netherlands.
Scheme liabilities by scheme membership:
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Active members 582 656 22 23 604 679
Deferred members 756 1,025 1 1 757 1,026
Retired members 4,580 4,966 498 531 5,078 5,497
Present value at 31 December 5,918 6,647 521 555 6,439 7,202
Approximately 95% of scheme liabilities in both years relate to guaranteed benefits.
306
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The movements in funded scheme assets are as follows:
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets
at 1 January 7,172 7,271 145 153 7,317 7,424
Differences on exchange (128) (182) 2 (10) (126) (192)
Settlements (203) (60) — — (203) (60)
Interest on scheme assets 312 345 8 9 320 354
Company contributions 30 64 — — 30 64
Contributions by scheme members 2 2 — — 2 2
Benefits paid (442) (448) (15) (14) (457) (462)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (271) 180 — 7 (271) 187
Fair value of scheme assets
at 31 December 6,472 7,172 140 145 6,612 7,317
The actuarial losses and gains in both years principally relate to movements in the fair values of scheme assets including revaluations
on initial recognition and subsequent remeasurement of insurance assets acquired in the buy-in transactions referred to above. Actual
returns are stated net of applicable taxes and fund management fees. Settlements in the table above includes amounts relating to the
buy-out of the Groningen liabilities in the Netherlands in 2024.
Scheme assets have been diversified into equities, bonds and other assets and are typically invested via fund investment managers into
both pooled and segregated mandates of listed and unlisted equities and bonds.
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities ‒ listed 336 629 5 5 341 634
Equities ‒ unlisted 688 675 — 49 688 724
Bonds ‒ listed 1,180 1,139 25 17 1,205 1,156
Bonds ‒ unlisted 777 803 98 58 875 861
Buy-in insurance policies 2,345 2,585 — — 2,345 2,585
Other assets ‒ listed 509 556 2 8 511 564
Other assets ‒ unlisted 637 785 10 8 647 793
Fair value of scheme assets
at 31 December 6,472 7,172 140 145 6,612 7,317
In the above analysis, investments via equity-based investment funds are shown under listed equities, and investments via bond-based
investment funds are shown under listed bonds. Other assets include insurance contracts, cash and other deposits, derivatives and other
hedges, recoverable taxes, infrastructure investments and investment property. The fair values of listed scheme assets were derived
from observable data including quoted market prices and other market data, including market values of individual segregated
investments and of pooled investment funds where quoted.
The fair values of insurance policies related to buy-in transactions in the UK and Canada were estimated as the present value of the
underlying obligations covered by the insurance policy and consequently the valuation of these assets at each balance sheet date is
subject to the same measurement uncertainty as for the related scheme liabilities.
The fair values of other unlisted assets were determined using an income approach that utilised cash flow models utilising observable
inputs and comparing these valuations to benchmark valuations of similar assets. In addition, the fair value of a proportion of the unlisted
bonds is estimated by reference to daily broker auctions.
In the U.S. pension plan assets are invested using active investment strategies and multiple investment management firms. Managers
within each asset class cover a range of investment styles and approaches. Allowable investment types include public equity, fixed
income, real assets, private equity and hedge funds. The range of allowable investment types utilised for pension assets provides
enhanced returns and more widely diversifies the plan.
As noted above, the UKPF Trustee has acquired insurance policies that operate as a UK Fund investment asset in a buy-in transaction.
The residual assets of this fund of £169 million (2023: £184 million) now predominantly consist of cash and a proportion of illiquid
investments, such as private equity and infrastructure investments.
307
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The recognition of retirement benefit surpluses on the balance sheet is restricted where the economic benefit, in the form of a potential
refund or reduction in future contributions, has a present value which is less than the net assets of the scheme. The movements in the
unrecognised scheme surpluses, recognised in other comprehensive income, are as follows:
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total
2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Unrecognised funded
scheme surpluses at
1 January (40) (60) (16) — — — (40) (60) (16)
Differences
on exchange 1 — (4) — — — 1 — (4)
Interest on
unrecognised funded
scheme surpluses (3) (4) (1) — — — (3) (4) (1)
Movement in year
(note 22) (14) 24 (39) — — — (14) 24 (39)
Unrecognised funded
scheme surpluses at
31 December (56) (40) (60) — — — (56) (40) (60)
The principal actuarial assumptions (weighted to reflect individual scheme differences) used in the following territories are shown below.
In both years, discount rates are determined by reference to normal yields on high quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
2024 2023
U.S. UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland U.S. UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland
Rate of increase in
salaries (%) 3.3 Nil 2.8 2.5 2.0 2.0 3.3 Nil 2.5 2.5 1.4 2.0
Rate of increase in
pensions in payment
(%) 2.4 3.2 2.2 Nil 2.1 Nil 2.4 3.1 2.3 Nil 2.5 Nil
Rate of increase in
deferred pensions (%) 0.1 2.8 2.2 Nil 2.1 — 0.1 2.5 2.3 Nil 2.5 —
Discount rate (%) 5.6 5.5 3.5 4.6 3.5 0.9 5.2 4.8 3.5 4.6 3.3 1.4
General inflation (%) 2.5 3.2 2.2 2.0 2.0 1.1 2.5 3.1 2.5 2.0 2.0 1.4
2024 2023
U.S. UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland U.S. UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland
Weighted average
duration of liabilities
(years) 9.6 11.4 10.6 9.0 13.6 10.9 10.2 12.2 10.6 9.0 15.0 10.8
308
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
For healthcare inflation in the U.S., the assumption is 7.0% for 2024 (2023: 7.5%) and in Canada, the assumption is 5.0% for both years.
Mortality assumptions are subject to regular review. The principal schemes used the following tables:
U.S. Pri-2012 mortality tables without collar or amount adjustments projected with MP-2021 generational projection except
for a specific group of retired members for which the mortality assumption is 99.5% of the RP-2006 table with white
collar adjustment, projected with MP-2021 generational projection (both years)
UK S3NA (YOB) with the CMI (2023) improvement model (smoothing parameter of 7) and 15% weighting to the 2022 and
2023 data with a 1.25% long-term improvement rate applied from 2020 onwards (2023: S3NA (YOB) with the CMI (2022)
improvement model (smoothing parameter of 7) and 25% weighting to the 2022 data with a 1.25% long-term
improvement rate)
Germany RT Heubeck 2018 G (both years)
Canada CPM-2014 Private Table (both years)
Netherlands AG Prognosetafel 2024 (2023: AG Prognosetafel 2022)
Switzerland LPP/BVG 2020 base table with CMI projection factors for mortality improvements with a 1.5% long-term improvement
rate (both years)
Based on the above, the weighted average life expectancy, in years, for mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations is as follows:
U.S. UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland
Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female
31 December 2024
Member age 65
(current life expectancy) 22.2 23.7 22.6 24.1 20.8 24.2 22.1 24.5 21.0 24.7 22.1 23.9
Member age 45
(life expectancy at age 65) 22.3 24.2 24.1 26.1 22.5 26.4 23.1 25.4 23.2 26.5 24.1 25.8
31 December 2023
Member age 65
(current life expectancy) 22.1 23.6 22.6 24.1 20.6 24.0 22.1 24.4 21.0 24.4 22.0 23.8
Member age 45
(life expectancy at age 65) 22.2 24.1 24.1 26.1 23.0 26.8 23.1 25.4 23.2 26.3 24.0 25.7
For the remaining territories, typical assumptions are that real salary increases will be from 0% to 9.8% (2023: 0% to 11.7%) per annum
and discount rates will be from 0% to 8.7% (2023: 0% to 7.0%) above inflation. Pension increases, where allowed for, are generally
assumed to be in line with inflation. Assumptions of life expectancy are in line with best practice in each territory. For countries where
there is not a deep market in such corporate bonds, the yield on government bonds is used.
The valuation of retirement benefit schemes involves judgements about uncertain future events. Sensitivities in respect of the key
assumptions used to measure the principal pension schemes as at 31 December 2024 are set out below. These sensitivities show the
hypothetical impact of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation, with the exception of the sensitivity to inflation which
incorporates the impact of certain correlating assumptions such as salary increases and pension increases. While each of these
sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation, while asset values also change,
and the impacts may offset to some extent.
1 year 1 year percentage percentage
increase decrease increase decrease
£m £m £m £m
Average life expectancy – increase/(decrease) of scheme liabilities 113 (113)
Rate of inflation (+/- 25bps) – increase/(decrease) of scheme liabilities 82 (79)
Discount rate (+/- 50bps) – (decrease)/increase of scheme liabilities (258) 280
A one percent increase in healthcare inflation would increase healthcare scheme liabilities by £18 million, and a one percent decrease
would decrease liabilities by £16 million. The income statement effect of this change in assumption is not material.
309
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
16 Deferred tax
Net deferred tax (liabilities)/assets comprise:
Excess of
capital Undistributed
allowances earnings of Other
Stock over Tax associates and Retirement temporary
relief depreciation losses subsidiaries benefits Trademarks differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 2024 32 (21) 373 (221) 39 (12,486) 1,003 (11,281)
Differences on exchange (5) 3 (1) 3 (1) (227) (4) (232)
(Charged)/credited to the
income statement (24) 42 6 21 (21) 517 1,635 2,176
Credited/(charged) relating
to changes in tax rates 4 2 — — — 268 (25) 249
Credited/(charged) to other
comprehensive income — — — — 5 — (23) (18)
31 December 2024 7 26 378 (197) 22 (11,928) 2,586 (9,106)
1 January 2023 30 (115) 210 (229) 38 (18,773) 1,093 (17,746)
Differences on exchange 2 26 1 12 1 798 (78) 762
Credited/(charged) to the
income statement (1) 72 153 (4) (35) 5,384 8 5,577
(Charged)/credited relating
to changes in tax rates — — 9 — — 105 (8) 106
Charged to other
comprehensive income — — — — 35 — (23) 12
Net reclassifications as
held-for-sale 1 (4) — — — — 11 8
31 December 2023 32 (21) 373 (221) 39 (12,486) 1,003 (11,281)
The net deferred tax liabilities are reflected in the Group balance sheet as follows: deferred tax asset of £2,573 million and deferred tax
liability of £11,679 million (2023: deferred tax asset of £911 million and deferred tax liability of £12,192 million), after offsetting assets and
liabilities where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate
to the same fiscal authority.
The movement in other temporary differences during 2024 primarily relates to the recognition of a deferred tax asset in relation to the
Proposed Plans in Canada, described further in notes 24 and 31.
The Group net deferred tax liability of £9,106 million includes a net deferred tax asset of £551 million (2023: £493 million) in relation to UK
Group companies, which relates mainly to tax losses (£394 million; 2023: £363 million) and the excess of capital allowances over
depreciation (£215 million; 2023: £196 million). The tax losses are expected to be utilised in future periods as a result of increased
profitability in UK Group companies which is expected to follow from improved efficiency in the delivery of business activities. Based on
current forecasts UK group companies are expected to generate taxable profits from 2026, from which time it is expected that the tax
losses will start to reduce. The losses are forecast to be fully utilised within 6 years thereafter, accounting for a 10% increase or decrease
in the total profits of UK group companies.
The Group has applied the mandatory exception to recognising and disclosing information about deferred tax assets and liabilities
related to Pillar Two income taxes in accordance with IAS12 Income Taxes.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of unused tax losses of £365 million (2023:
£360 million) which have no expiry date and unused tax losses of £201 million (2023: £285 million) which will expire within the next 20 years.
In 2024 and 2023 the Group has not recognised any deferred tax asset in respect of deductible temporary differences which have no
expiry date and has not recognised any deferred tax asset (2023: £25 million) in respect of deductible temporary differences which will
expire within the next 10 years.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax credits of £80 million (2023: £80 million) which have no expiry date. No amount
of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused tax credits.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of subsidiaries which would be subject to dividend
withholding tax and for which no withholding tax liability has been recognised was £1.2 billion (2023: £1.1 billion).
310
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
17 Trade and other receivables
2024 2023
£m £m
Trade receivables 2,855 2,887
Loans and other receivables 689 663
Prepayments and accrued income 342 392
3,886 3,942
Current 3,604 3,621
Non-current 282 321
3,886 3,942
Trade receivables
The majority of receivables are held in order to collect contractual cash flows, in accordance with the Group’s business model for
managing financial assets, and hence are measured at amortised cost. In certain countries, however, the Group has entered into
factoring arrangements and periodically sells certain trade receivables to banks and other financial institutions, without recourse, for
cash. These trade receivables have been derecognised from the balance sheet to reflect the transfer by the Group of substantially all of
the risks and rewards of the receivables, including credit risk. Consequently, the cash inflows have been recognised within operating cash
flows. Typically in these arrangements, the Group also acts as a collection agent for the bank. At 31 December 2024, the value of trade
receivables derecognised through the factoring arrangements where the Group acts as a collection agent was £535 million
(2023: £545 million) and where the Group does not act as a collection agent was £7 million (2023: £16 million). Included in trade
receivables above is £213 million (2023: £189 million) of trade debtor balances which were available for factoring under these
arrangements. In addition, the Group participates in certain supply chain finance programmes utilised by our customers allowing us to
receive payment for invoices earlier than the agreed due date at a discounted value. At 31 December 2024, the value of trade receivables
derecognised through these arrangements was £172 million (2023: £141 million).
A number of Group companies have entered into arrangements with certain customers. Under these agreements the Group enters into
an agreement with a financial institution and/or a customer. The agreement allows the customer to obtain finance from the financial
institution in order to pay invoices due to the Group. The customer repays the financial institution based on an agreed maturity date
independently agreed between the customer and financial institution. Under these agreements there is normally no recourse to the Group
in the event of credit default by customers. However, the Group is subject to various performance obligations under the arrangement
including notifying the financial institution of credit default or of changes to, or termination of, the customer supply agreement. The
amount derecognised from trade receivables at 31 December 2024 in relation to these arrangements is £20 million. The cash flows have
been recognised within operating cash flows.
The Group also participates in agreements with customers where the Group can request early payment of invoices at a discount.
The discount is recognised as a deduction against revenue. At 31 December, £82 million was received in advance of the invoice due date
(2023: £67 million).
Loans and other receivables
Included in loans and other receivables are £113 million of litigation related deposits (2023: £131 million). Management has determined that
these payments represent a resource controlled by the entity, as a result of past events and from which future economic benefits are
expected to flow to the entity either by being recoverable on conclusion of ongoing appeal processes or by reducing amounts potentially
payable should the appeal process fail. These deposits are held at the fair value of consideration transferred and are offset against
provisions, if applicable, only once funds have transferred out from the deposit account. The effect of discounting would be immaterial.
Loans and other receivables include £57 million (2023: £56 million) as a current receivable in relation to outstanding proceeds from the
sale of the Group’s Iranian subsidiary in 2021. Given the ongoing political situation, heightened sanctions and other uncertainties coupled
with the passage of time the receivable has been outstanding, the Group recognised an expected credit loss of £28 million at
31 December 2023.
Also included in loans and other receivables are deposits that do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents as well as loans
provided to farmers. The cash flows arising from these transactions are included in investing activities and have been reconciled,
in note 18, to the cash flow statement.
Prepayments and accrued income
Prepayments and accrued income include £16 million (2023: £17 million) of accrued income primarily in relation to rebates and royalties.
Other disclosures
Amounts receivable from related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 30.
Trade and other receivables have been reported in the balance sheet net of allowances as follows:
2024 2023
£m £m
Trade receivables – gross 2,900 2,957
Trade receivables – allowance (45) (70)
Loans and other receivables – gross 717 691
Loans and other receivables – allowance (28) (28)
Prepayments and accrued income 342 392
Net trade and other receivables per balance sheet 3,886 3,942
311
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The movements in the allowance account are as follows:
2024 2023
Loans Loans
Trade and other Trade and other
receivables receivables Total receivables receivables Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 70 28 98 51 — 51
Differences on exchange (3) — (3) 2 — 2
Provided in the year 8 — 8 33 28 61
Released (30) — (30) (16) — (16)
31 December 45 28 73 70 28 98
As permitted by IFRS 9, the loss allowance on trade receivables arising from the recognition of revenue under IFRS 15 is initially measured
at an amount equal to lifetime expected losses. Allowances in respect of loans and other receivables are initially recognised at an amount
equal to 12-month expected credit losses. Allowances are measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses where the
credit risk on the receivables increases significantly after initial recognition.
The Group holds bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance in respect of some of the past due debtor balances.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings apart from the
following: US dollar: 3.3% (2023: 3.3%), Euro: 5.5% (2023: 6.6%) and other currencies: 1.8% (2023: 1.4%).
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value due to the short-term
duration of the majority of trade and other receivables as determined using discounted cash flow analysis. There is no concentration
of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
18 Investments held at fair value
2024 2023
Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value
through P&L through OCI Total through P&L through OCI Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 652 67 719 640 60 700
Difference on exchange (40) — (40) (52) (1) (53)
Additions 210 4 214 405 11 416
Disposals (288) — (288) (372) — (372)
Provisions — — — 4 — 4
Reclassifications — — — (3) 3 —
Other fair value movements 60 (6) 54 30 (6) 24
31 December 594 65 659 652 67 719
Current 513 — 513 601 — 601
Non-current 81 65 146 51 67 118
594 65 659 652 67 719
The Group’s investments principally consist of non-derivative financial assets that cannot be classified as loans and other receivables
or cash and cash equivalents, as well as investments made by the Group’s corporate venture capital unit, Btomorrow Ventures, and other
Group companies.
Btomorrow Ventures has completed 28 investments since its launch in 2020, and continues to invest in innovative, consumer-led brands,
new sciences and technologies, and sustainability to support the Group’s transformational strategy for A Better Tomorrow™.
Throughout 2024, BTV has continued to support its portfolio of companies with a number of follow-on investment rounds, and new
investments including a U.S.-based adaptogens and nootropics beverage company, Hop Wtr Inc., and a German AI-powered sustainable
packaging company, one.five. During 2023, BTV invested into a UK-based bioplastics company, FlexSea, a U.S.-based organ-on-a-chip
technology company, Hesperos Inc. and into the Brazilian supplements company, Mais Mu.
The majority of investments held at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) relate to equity investments in various
businesses which are held for their strategic value.
Investments held at fair value through profit and loss principally consist of government securities, indexed deposits, treasury bills or other
treasury products with maturities of more than three months which, if held for less than 12 months, form part of the Group’s definition
of net debt. Investments held at fair value through profit and loss also include the Group’s investment in Charlotte’s Web (see note 14)
and other strategic investments which do not meet the definition of equity investments.
Investments held at fair value through profit and loss above include restricted amounts of £437 million (2023: £446 million) due to investments
held by subsidiaries in CCAA protection (note 32), as well as £60 million (2023: £89 million) subject to potential exchange control restrictions.
312
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
As part of the sale and leaseback transaction in Nigeria, referred to in note 5(a), the Group obtained a 40% interest in Rising Sun Partners LP,
a property management company as part of the consideration receivable. As a general partner, the Group has no voting rights or influence over
the entity and has classified the interest as an investment at fair value through profit and loss. The fair value of the investment has been derived
as a share of the market value of the property owned and managed by Rising Sun Partners LP. The value of the investment as at 31 December
2024 is £10 million and as it is a non-cash addition it has been excluded from the cash flow reconciliation below.
In 2021, as part of the disposal of the Group’s operations in Iran, a provision of £24 million against non-current investments held at fair
value was charged to net finance costs as recoverability of these funds was not certain. During 2022, £17 million was recovered with the
remaining funds recovered during 2023.
Investments held at fair value are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings with less than
7% in other currencies (2023: less than 6% in other currencies). There is no material difference between the investments held at fair value
and their gross contractual values.
The classification of these investments under the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement fair value hierarchy is given in note 26. Fair values for
quoted investments are based on observable market prices. If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value is established
by using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analyses and share of net assets. The fair value of the seven-year
convertible debenture in Charlotte’s Web has been determined using a binomial option pricing model.
Included in the values in the table above are £212 million (2023: £192 million) of level 3 assets. Movements in these assets in 2024 included
£128 million (2023: £123 million) of additions, £114 million (2023: £90 million) of disposals and £6 million of net fair value gain (2023:
£27 million net fair value loss).
Below is a reconciliation of the fair value investments cash flows to the cash flow statement – investing activities:
2024 2023
£m £m
Cash outflow from investments held at fair value 204 416
Cash outflow from loans and other receivables 12 32
Cash outflows from investments per cash flow statement 216 448
Cash inflow from investments held at fair value (288) (372)
Cash inflow from loans and other receivables (11) (33)
Cash inflows from investments per cash flow statement (299) (405)
313
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
19 Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivatives are determined based on market data (primarily yield curves, implied volatilities and exchange rates) to
calculate the present value of all estimated flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date. In the absence of sufficient
market data, fair values would be based on the quoted market price of similar derivatives. The classification of these derivative assets
and liabilities under the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy is given in note 26.
2024 2023
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges
–interest rate swaps 11 270 10 187
– cross-currency swaps 19 — 18 —
Cash flow hedges
– cross-currency swaps 81 16 97 13
– forward foreign currency contracts 71 33 48 55
Net investment hedges
– forward foreign currency contracts 35 67 81 9
Held-for-trading*
– forward foreign currency contracts 79 31 36 131
Embedded derivative relating to associates (note 14) — 7 — —
Total 296 424 290 395
Current 186 156 181 189
Non-current 110 268 109 206
296 424 290 395
Derivatives
– in respect of net debt** 184 297 147 317
– other 112 127 143 78
296 424 290 395
Notes:
* Derivatives which do not meet the tests for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 or which are not designated as hedging instruments are referred to as ‘held-for-trading’. These derivatives
principally consist of forward foreign currency contracts which have not been designated as hedges due to their value changes offsetting with other components of net finance costs
relating to financial assets and financial liabilities. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. All derivatives are undertaken for risk management purposes.
** Derivatives in respect of net debt are in a net liability position of £113 million as at 31 December 2024 (2023: net liability position of £170 million). The Group’s net debt is presented
in note 23.
For cash flow hedges, the timing of expected cash flows is as follows: assets of £152 million (2023: £144 million) of which £65 million
(2023: £46 million) is expected within one year and £nil million (2023: £ nil million) beyond five years and liabilities of £49 million
(2023: £68 million) of which £48 million (2023: £52 million) is expected within one year and £nil million (2023: £nil million) beyond five years.
The Group’s cash flow hedges are principally in respect of sales or purchases of inventory and certain debt instruments. A certain
number of forward foreign currency contracts were used to manage the currency profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the
currency table in note 23. Interest rate swaps have been used to manage the interest rate profile of external borrowings and are reflected
in the re-pricing table in note 23.
314
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The table below sets out the maturities of the Group’s derivative financial instruments (excluding the embedded derivative relating to
associates) on an undiscounted contractual basis, based on spot rates.
The maturity dates of gross-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows:
2024 2023
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year
–forward foreign currency
contracts 9,748 (9,556) 6,952 (7,075) 8,163 (8,006) 10,354 (10,549)
– interest rate swaps — (9) 117 (224) — — 124 (256)
– cross-currency swaps 34 (40) 306 (323) 34 (42) 6 (10)
Between one and two years
–forward foreign currency
contracts 377 (365) 199 (202) 171 (168) 182 (186)
– interest rate swaps 18 (14) 231 (316) — — 77 (151)
– cross-currency swaps 34 (38) — — 34 (35) 306 (316)
Between two and three years
– interest rate swaps 19 (15) 229 (249) — — 77 (124)
– cross-currency swaps 594 (492) — — 34 (33) — —
Between three and four years
– interest rate swaps 19 (16) 196 (218) — — 39 (31)
– cross-currency swaps 27 (25) — — 618 (488) — —
Between four and five years
– interest rate swaps 19 (17) 196 (218) — — — —
– cross-currency swaps 473 (454) — — 26 (21) — —
Beyond five years
– interest rate swaps 279 — 1,217 (685)
– cross-currency swaps — — — — 458 (453) — —
11,641 (11,041) 9,643 (9,510) 9,538 (9,246) 11,165 (11,623)
Group's net-settled derivative financial instruments are all due within one year with assets inflow of £1 million (2023: £10 million inflow)
and liabilities outflow of £8 million (2023: £5 million outflow).
315
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The items designated as hedging instruments are as follows:
2024 2023
Nominal Changes in Changes in
amount of fair value used for Nominal fair value used for
hedging calculating hedge amount of hedging calculating hedge
instrument ineffectiveness instrument ineffectiveness
£m £m £m £m
Interest rate risk exposure:
Fair value hedges
– interest rate swaps 6,509 (58) 2,798 79
– cross-currency swaps 459 (2) 451 13
Cash flow hedges
– cross-currency swaps 833 18 859 (26)
Foreign currency risk exposure:
Cash flow hedges
– forward foreign currency contracts 3,023 39 2,807 (6)
Net investment hedges (derivative related)
– forward foreign currency contracts 4,569 (33) 4,329 69
Net investment hedges (non-derivative related)
– debt (carrying value) in borrowings designated as net
investment hedges of net assets 363 17 380 9
20 Inventories
2024 2023
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 2,056 2,198
Finished goods and work in progress 2,434 2,584
Goods purchased for resale 126 156
4,616 4,938
Write-offs taken to other operating expenses in the Group income statement were £134 million (2023: £250 million; 2022: £250 million).
As mentioned in note 33, in 2023, includes a write-off of stock of leaf following an extreme weather event. Goods purchased for resale
include Group brands produced under third-party contract manufacturing arrangements.
316
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
21 Cash and cash equivalents
2024 2023
£m £m
Cash and bank balances 3,428 3,247
Cash equivalents 1,869 1,412
5,297 4,659
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below:
2024 2023
£m £m
Functional currency 4,392 4,147
US dollar 651 373
Euro 115 81
Other currencies 139 58
5,297 4,659
In the Group cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents are shown after deducting bank overdrafts and accrued interest where
applicable, as follows:
2024 2023
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents as above 5,297 4,659
Less overdrafts and accrued interest (193) (142)
Net cash and cash equivalents 5,104 4,517
Cash and cash equivalents also include £49 million (2023: £38 million) of cash that is held as a hedging instrument.
Accrued interest of £55 million (2023: £39 million) is primarily due to high cash and cash equivalent balances in certain markets, including
the UK, where in 2024 the excess cash was driven by the sale of 12% of the Group's equity stake in its associate ITC. In 2023, Brazil
accumulated cash was temporarily higher than normal due to the recognition of tax credits being offset against tax liabilities payable.
Restricted cash
Cash and cash equivalents include restricted amounts of £2,072 million (2023: £1,904 million) due to subsidiaries in CCAA protection
(note 32 and note 24), as well as £339 million (2023: £392 million) principally due to exchange control restrictions.
317
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
22 Capital and reserves
(a) Share capital
Ordinary
shares of 25p each
Number of shares £m
Allotted and fully paid
1 January 2024 2,456,941,909 614
Changes during the year
– share option schemes 275,824 —
– shares bought back and cancelled (27,392,429) (7)
– treasury shares cancelled (87,000,000) (22)
31 December 2024 2,342,825,304 585
Allotted and fully paid
1 January 2023 2,456,867,420 614
Changes during the year
– share option schemes 74,489 —
31 December 2023 2,456,941,909 614
Allotted and fully paid
1 January 2022 2,456,617,788 614
Changes during the year
– share option schemes 249,632 —
31 December 2022 2,456,867,420 614
Share capital
The Company’s ordinary shares are fully paid and no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the
shareholders. All ordinary shares rank equally with regard to participation in dividends and to share in the proceeds of the Company’s
residual assets upon a winding up of the Company. Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, declare final dividends, but not in excess
of the amount recommended by the Directors. Holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights.
On a show of hands every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting is entitled to one vote regardless of the number
of shares held by the shareholder, unless a poll is demanded. On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one
vote for every share held by the shareholder. The Company’s Annual General Meeting voting is undertaken by way of a poll.
All rights attached to the Company’s shares held by the Group as treasury shares are suspended until those shares are reissued.
(b) Share premium account, capital redemption reserves and merger reserves comprise:
Share Capital
premium redemption Merger
account reserves reserves Total
£m £m £m £m
31 December 2024 121 130 26,414 26,665
31 December 2023 115 101 26,414 26,630
31 December 2022 113 101 26,414 26,628
Share premium account
The share premium account includes the difference between the value of shares issued and their nominal value. The share premium
increase includes £6 million (2023: £2 million; 2022: £5 million) in respect of ordinary shares issued under the Company’s share option
schemes. In 2022, the £1 million increase in share premium is related to shares repurchased and not cancelled that have been transferred
from the Company to other Group undertakings, to be granted to certain employees on vesting of awards, and represents the excess of
transfer price of the share over the original weighted average cost of shares.
Capital redemption account
On the purchase of own shares as part of the share buy-back programme for shares which are cancelled, a transfer is made from
retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve equivalent to the nominal value of shares purchased. Purchased shares which are
not cancelled are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity. During 2024, 87 million shares purchased
under previous share buy-back programmes were cancelled.
Merger reserve account
The merger reserve comprises:
a.In 1999, shares were issued for the acquisition of the Rothmans International B.V. Group and the difference between the fair value
of shares issued and their nominal value of £3,748 million was credited to merger reserves; and
b.On 25 July 2017, the Group announced the completion of the acquisition of the remaining 57.8% of RAI not already owned by the Group.
Shares were issued for the acquisition and the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their nominal value of
£22,666 million was credited to merger reserves.
318
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
(c) Equity attributed to owners of the parent − movements in other reserves and retained earnings (which are after deducting
treasury shares) comprise:
Retained earnings
Fair
Translation Hedging value Revaluation Total Treasury
reserve reserve reserve reserve Other other shares
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) reserves (vi) Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 2024 (1,470) (194) 18 179 573 (894) (7,096) 31,627
Comprehensive income and expense
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 3,068
Foreign currency translation and hedges of net
investments in foreign operations
–differences on exchange from translation of
foreign operations (193) — — — — (193) — —
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year — — — — — — — —
– net investment hedges − net fair value
gains on derivatives 20 — — — — 20 — —
–net investment hedges − differences on exchange
on borrowings 17 — — — — 17 — —
Cash flow hedges
– net fair value gains — 65 — — — 65 — —
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year — 36 — — — 36 — —
–tax on net fair value gains in respect of cash flow
hedges (note 10(f)) — (23) — — — (23) — —
Investments held at fair value
– net fair value losses — — (6) — — (6) — —
Associates
− share of OCI, net of tax (note 9) (32) 19 — — — (13) — —
− differences on exchange reclassified to profit or loss
(note 9) 43 — — — — 43 — —
Retirement benefit schemes
– net actuarial losses (note 15) — — — — — — — (19)
– surplus recognition (note 15) — — — — — — — (14)
–tax on actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries
— — — — — — — (1)
(note 10(f))
Associates − share of OCI, net of tax (note 9) — — 33 — — 33 — —
Other changes in equity
Cash flow hedges reclassified and
reported in total assets — 13 — — — 13 — —
Employee share options
– value of employee services — — — — — — — 70
– treasury shares used for share option schemes — — — — — — 8 (8)
Dividends and other appropriations
– ordinary shares — — — — — — — (5,209)
Purchase of own shares
– held in employee share ownership trusts — — — — — — (94) —
– share buy-back programme — — — — — — — (698)
Treasury shares cancelled — — — — — — 2,685 (2,685)
Perpetual hybrid bonds
– coupons paid — — — — — — — (56)
– tax on coupons paid — — — — — — — 14
Other movements — — — — — — 89 (71)
31 December 2024 (1,615) (84) 45 179 573 (902) (4,408) 26,018
319
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Retained earnings
Fair
Translation Hedging value Revaluation Total Treasury
reserve reserve reserve reserve Other other shares
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) reserves (vi) Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 2023 2,200 (327) 30 179 573 2,655 (7,116) 51,197
Comprehensive income and expense
Loss for the year — — — — — — — (14,367)
Foreign currency translation and hedges of net
investments in foreign operations
–differences on exchange from translation of
foreign operations (4,007) — — — — (4,007) — —
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year 552 — — — — 552 — —
–net investment hedges – net fair value gains on
derivatives 236 — — — — 236 — —
–net investment hedges – differences on exchange
on borrowings 9 — — — — 9 — —
Cash flow hedges
– net fair value gains — 59 — — — 59 — —
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year — 12 — — — 12 — —
–tax on net fair value gains in respect of cash flow
hedges (note 10(f)) — (23) — — — (23) — —
Investments held at fair value
– net fair value losses — — (6) — — (6) — —
Associates – share of OCI, net of tax (note 9) (165) 58 — — — (107) — —
Retirement benefit schemes
– net actuarial losses (note 15) — — — — — — — (106)
– surplus recognition (note 15) — — — — — — — 24
–tax on actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries
(note 10(f)) — — — — — — — 30
Associates − share of OCI, net of tax (note 9) — — (6) — — (6) — 1
Other changes in equity
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in
total assets — 27 — — — 27 — —
Employee share options
– value of employee services — — — — — — — 71
– treasury shares used for share option schemes — — — — — — 14 (14)
Dividends and other appropriations
– ordinary shares — — — — — — — (5,071)
Purchase of own shares
– held in employee share ownership trusts — — — — — — (110) —
Perpetual hybrid bonds
– coupons paid — — — — — — — (58)
– tax on coupons paid — — — — — — — 14
Reclassification of equity in respect of assets
classified as held-for-sale (295) — — — — (295) — —
Other movements — — — — — — 116 (94)
31 December 2023 (1,470) (194) 18 179 573 (894) (7,096) 31,627
320
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Retained earnings
Fair
Translation Hedging value Revaluation Total Treasury
reserve reserve reserve reserve Other other shares
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) reserves (vi) Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 2022 (6,427) (363) 6 179 573 (6,032) (5,122) 49,334
Comprehensive income and expense
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 6,666
Foreign currency translation and hedges of net
investments in foreign operations
–differences on exchange from translation of
foreign operations 8,920 — — — — 8,920 — —
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year 5 — — — — 5 — —
–net investment hedges – net fair value
loss on derivatives (578) — — — — (578) — —
–net investment hedges – differences on exchange
on borrowings (21) — — — — (21) — —
Cash flow hedges
– net fair value gains — 81 — — — 81 — —
– reclassified and reported in profit for the year — 101 — — — 101 — —
–tax on net fair value gains in respect of cash flow
hedges (note 10(f)) — (17) — — — (17) — —
Investments held at fair value
– net fair value gains — — 6 — — 6 — —
Associates – share of OCI, net of tax (note 9) 6 — — — — 6 — —
Retirement benefit schemes
– net actuarial gains (note 15) — — — — — — — 316
– surplus recognition (note 15) — — — — — — — (39)
–tax on actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries
(note 10(f)) — — — — — — — (95)
Associates - share of OCI, net of tax (note 9) — — 18 — — 18 — 1
Other changes in equity
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in total
assets — (129) — — — (129) — —
Employee share options
–value of employee services — — — — — — — 81
–treasury shares used for share option schemes — — — — — — 14 (15)
Dividends and other appropriations
–ordinary shares — — — — — — — (4,915)
Purchase of own shares
–held in employee share ownership trusts — — — — — — (80) —
– share buy-back programme — — — — — — (2,012) —
Perpetual hybrid bonds
– coupons paid — — — — — — — (59)
– tax on coupons paid — — — — — — — 11
Non-controlling interests − acquisitions (note 27(c)) — — — — — — — (1)
Reclassification of equity in respect of assets
295 — — — — 295 — —
classified as held-for-sale
Other movements — — — — — — 84 (88)
31 December 2022 2,200 (327) 30 179 573 2,655 (7,116) 51,197
321
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
(i) Translation reserve:
The translation reserve is explained in the accounting policy on foreign currencies in note 1.
In 2024, included within the differences on exchange from translation of foreign operations and associates is £43 million (2023: £552
million; 2022: £5 million) which has been reclassified from reserves to the income statement and recognised in other operating expenses
as an adjusting item. This relates to the Group's divestment of 12% of its equity stake in ITC. In 2023, this amount included £554 million in
respect of the sale of the Russian and Belarusian subsidiaries and a loss of £2 million in respect of the move to above market business
models and Quantum-related initiatives. In 2022, £4 million was in respect of the exit from Egypt and £2 million from other Quantum-
related initiatives involving market exits. Also, in 2022, as a result of the exit from Yemen, the Group reclassified to the income statement
the foreign exchange previously recognised in associates other comprehensive income. This resulted in a credit of ££1 million to the
income statement.
(ii) Hedging reserve:
The hedging reserve is explained in the accounting policy on financial instruments in note 1.
Of the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve and reported in profit for the year, a loss of £33 million (2023: £51 million loss;
2022: £16 million loss) and a gain of £6 million (2023: £4 million loss; 2022: £2 million loss) were reported within revenue and raw materials
and consumables, respectively, together with a loss of £6 million (2023: £17 million loss; 2022: £46 million gain) reported in other
operating expenses, and a gain of £69 million (2023: £84 million gain; 2022: £73 million gain) reported within net finance costs.
The Group hedges certain foreign currency denominated borrowings with cross-currency interest rate swaps. As permitted by IFRS 9
Financial Instruments, the foreign currency basis spreads have been separated from the hedging instrument and are recognised in
reserves as a ‘cost of hedging’ and are reclassified to the income statement in the same period in which profit and loss is affected by the
hedged expected cash flows as a component of the associated interest expense. The basis spreads are included within hedging reserves
as they are not material. Included within the balance of hedging reserves at 31 December 2024 is an accumulated loss of £2 million
(2023: £6 million loss; 2022: £5 million gain) in respect of the cost of hedging.
(iii) Fair value reserve:
The fair value reserve is explained in the accounting policy on financial instruments in note 1. Fair value gains and losses arising from
investments held at fair value through other comprehensive income are recognised in this reserve.
(iv) Revaluation reserve:
The revaluation reserve relates to the acquisition of the cigarette and snus business of ST in 2008.
(v) Other reserves:
Other reserves comprise:
(a) £483 million which arose in 1998 from merger accounting in a Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction whereby British American
Tobacco p.l.c. acquired the entire share capital of B.A.T Industries p.l.c. and the share capital of that company’s principal financial services
subsidiaries was distributed, so effectively demerging them; and
(b) In the 1999 Rothmans transaction, convertible redeemable preference shares were issued as part of the consideration. The discount
on these shares was amortised by crediting other reserves and charging retained earnings. The £90 million balance in other reserves
comprises the accumulated balance in respect of the preference shares converted during 2004.
(vi) Treasury shares:
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent is stated after deducting the cost of treasury shares which include £4,114 million
(2023: £6,807 million; 2022: £6,821 million) for shares repurchased and not cancelled and £294 million (2023: £289 million; 2022: £295
million) in respect of the cost of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
On 18 March 2024, the Group announced a proposed programme to buy-back shares using the proceeds from the sale of shares in ITC
Limited, refer to note 27(b)(i). The programme will buy-back £1.6 billion of ordinary shares starting with £700 million in 2024 and with the
remaining £900 million in 2025. The purpose of this programme is to reduce the issued share capital of the Company and the shares
purchased in 2024 were cancelled on purchase. In respect of the share buy-back programme announced in 2024, during the year the
Group bought back and cancelled 27,392,429 shares, for a total consideration of £698 million inclusive of transaction costs of £3 million
that have been deducted from equity. Additionally, in 2024, 87 million shares held in the Company’s treasury share account previously
purchased under prior year share buy-back programmes were cancelled.
The previous share buy-back programme was in 2022 where the Board approved on 10 February 2022 the proposed buy-back of
£2 billion shares. In respect of the share buy-back programme announced in 2022, during 2022 the Group bought back 59,541,862 shares
and incurred transaction costs of £10 million that have been deducted from equity.
As at 31 December 2024, treasury shares include 7,113,821 (2023: 5,951,979; 2022: 5,920,638) shares held in trust and 133,266,206 (2023:
220,533,855; 2022: 221,000,192) shares repurchased and not cancelled as part of the Company’s share buy-back programme. From
March 2020, the Company has utilised shares acquired in the share buy-back programme to satisfy shared-based payment awards
made to certain employees.
322
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
(d) Perpetual hybrid bonds
On 27 September 2021, the Group issued two €1 billion perpetual hybrid bonds amounting to £1,703 million, which have been classified
as equity. Issuance costs of these bonds, amounting to €26 million (£22 million), have been recognised within equity, net of £4 million of
tax on issuance costs.
These bonds include redemption options exercisable at the Group’s discretion from September 2026 to December 2026 (the 3%
perpetual hybrid bond) and June 2029 to September 2029 (the 3.75% perpetual hybrid bond), on specified dates thereafter, or
in the event of specific circumstances (such as a change in IFRS or tax regime) as set out in the individual terms of each issue.
The coupons associated with these perpetual hybrid bonds are fixed at 3% until 2026 and 3.75% until 2029, respectively, and would reset
to rates determined by the contractual terms of each instrument on certain dates thereafter. The bonds are perpetual in nature and do
not have maturity dates for the repayment of principal. The contractual terms of the perpetual hybrid bonds allow the Group to defer
coupon payments, however certain contingent events could trigger mandatory payments of such deferred coupons, including the
payment of dividends on, and the repurchase of, ordinary shares, subject to certain exceptions in each case. The full terms and conditions
of such events can be found in the prospectus dated 27 September 2021 which is available under the debt facilities section of the Group’s
debt microsite (bat.com/debt).
As the Group has the unconditional right to avoid transferring cash or another financial asset in relation to these bonds, they are
classified as equity instruments in the consolidated financial statements.
During the year, the Group did not defer any eligible coupon payments and paid a coupon of £31 million in September 2024
(September 2023: £33 million) on the 3.75% September 2029 bond and £25 million in December 2024 (December 2023: £26 million)
on the 3% December 2026 bond which has been recognised within equity.
Differences between the coupon recognised in the capital and reserves statement and the coupon paid on perpetual hybrid bonds
in the cash flow statement are due to foreign exchange arising on short timing differences between recognition and settlement.
The fair value of these bonds at 31 December 2024 is £1,211 million (2023: £1,512 million).
(e) Non-controlling interests
Movements in non-controlling interests primarily relate to profit for the year and dividends (reported as a movement in retained
earnings) and differences on exchange arising from the translation into sterling (reported as a movement in other reserves). Information
on subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests is provided in note 32.
(f) Dividends and other appropriations
The interim quarterly dividend payment for the year ended 31 December 2023 of 235.52p per ordinary share (31 December 2022: 230.88p
per ordinary share) was payable in four equal instalments: amounts payable in May 2024 of £1,316 million (May 2023: £1,282 million),
August 2024 of £1,303 million (August 2023: £1,284 million), November 2024 of £1,302 million (November 2023: £1,293 million) and £1,296
million in February 2025 (February 2024: £1,287 million), respectively. The total dividends recognised as an appropriation from reserves in
2024 was £5,209 million (2023: £5,071 million; 2022: £4,915 million).
The Board has declared an interim dividend of 240.24p per ordinary share of 25p, for the year ended 31 December 2024, payable
in four equal quarterly instalments of 60.06p per ordinary share in May 2025, August 2025, November 2025 and February 2026.
These payments will be recognised as appropriations from reserves in 2025 and 2026. The total amount payable is estimated to
be £5,308 million based on the number of shares outstanding at the date of these accounts.
323
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
23 Borrowings
2024 2023
Currency Maturity dates Interest rates £m £m
Eurobonds Euro 2025 to 2045 1.3% to 5.4% 5,236 5,569
UK sterling 2025 to 2055 2.1% to 6.0% 2,291 3,097
Swiss franc 2026 1.4% 221 234
Bonds issued pursuant to Rules under
28,268 29,913
the U.S. Securities Act (as amended) US dollar 2025 to 2053 1.7% to 8.1%
Bonds and notes 36,016 38,813
Commercial paper — —
Other loans — 100
Bank loans 211 216
Bank overdrafts 138 103
Lease liabilities 585 498
36,950 39,730
Perpetual hybrid bonds issued by the Group have been classified as equity (note 22(d)) and are therefore excluded from borrowings.
Other loans comprise £nil million (2023: £100 million) relating to a bilateral facility. Commercial paper is issued at competitive rates to
meet short-term borrowing requirements as and when needed.
Current borrowings per the balance sheet include interest payable of £565 million at 31 December 2024 (2023: £573 million). Included
within borrowings are £8,750 million (2023: £5,935 million) of borrowings subject to fair value hedges where their amortised cost has
been decreased by £215 million (2023: £110 million decrease).
The fair value of borrowings is estimated to be £34,596 million (2023: £36,000 million) of which £33,663 million (2023: £35,083 million)
has been calculated using quoted market prices and is within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy and £933 million (2023: £917 million)
has been calculated based on discounted cash flow analysis and is within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Amounts secured on Group assets including property, plant and equipment, inventory and receivables as at 31 December 2024 are
£nil million (2023: £nil million). The majority of lease liabilities are secured against the associated assets.
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Per balance sheet Contractual gross maturities
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Within one year 4,312 4,324 5,276 5,359
Between one and two years 2,644 3,319 4,084 4,784
Between two and three years 3,012 2,558 4,522 3,920
Between three and four years 3,435 2,947 4,695 4,393
Between four and five years 1,725 3,410 2,899 4,600
Beyond five years 21,822 23,172 32,232 35,163
36,950 39,730 53,708 58,219
The contractual gross maturities in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast interest payments
on all borrowings which are outstanding for all or part of that year.
324
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Borrowings are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below:
Functional US UK Other
currency dollar sterling Euro currencies Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
31 December 2024
Total borrowings 28,830 3,754 302 3,800 264 36,950
Effect of derivative financial instruments
– cross-currency swaps 609 (148) — (533) — (72)
– forward foreign currency contracts 68 (901) — 435 395 (3)
29,507 2,705 302 3,702 659 36,875
31 December 2023
Total borrowings 32,215 3,656 302 3,301 256 39,730
Effect of derivative financial instruments
– cross-currency swaps 1,214 (451) (300) (559) — (96)
– forward foreign currency contracts (57) (892) — 537 414 2
33,372 2,313 2 3,279 670 39,636
The exposure to interest rate changes when borrowings are re-priced is as follows:
Within Between Between Between Between Beyond
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
31 December 2024
Total borrowings 4,312 2,644 3,012 3,435 1,725 21,822 36,950
Effect of derivative financial instruments
– interest rate swaps 6,494 — (1,815) — — (4,679) —
– cross-currency swaps 459 — (72) — (459) — (72)
11,265 2,644 1,125 3,435 1,266 17,143 36,878
31 December 2023
Total borrowings 4,324 3,319 2,558 2,947 3,410 23,172 39,730
Effect of derivative financial instruments
– interest rate swaps 2,798 (229) (786) — (1,783) — —
– cross-currency swaps 448 — 6 — (98) (452) (96)
7,570 3,090 1,778 2,947 1,529 22,720 39,634
Lease liabilities are repayable as follows:
Per balance sheet Contractual gross maturities
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Within one year 141 131 171 155
Between one and two years 133 103 165 122
Between two and three years 87 77 103 91
Between three and four years 49 59 61 70
Between four and five years 38 29 47 38
Beyond five years 137 99 176 140
585 498 723 616
For more information on leasing arrangements, refer to note 13.
As at 31 December 2024, the Group’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities (note 26) amount to £7,748 million (2023: £7,923 million)
with £5,056 million maturing within one year (2023: £5,077 million maturing within one year), £154 million maturing between one and two
years (2023: £154 million maturing between one and two years), £2,538 million maturing between two and three years (2023: £154 million
maturing between two and three years), £nil million maturing between three and four years (2023: £2,538 million maturing between
three and four years) and £nil million maturing between four and five years (2023: £nil million maturing between four and five years).
325
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
The Group’s composition and movements in net debt are presented below along with a reconciliation to the financing activities in the
Group Cash Flow Statement:
2024
£m
Fair value,
accrued
Opening Foreign interest and Closing
Notes balance Cash flow exchange other Held for Sale balance
Borrowings (excluding lease liabilities)* 39,232 (2,387) 231 (711) — 36,365
Lease liabilities 498 (165) (27) 279 — 585
Derivatives in respect of net debt 19 170 (133) 106 (30) — 113
Cash and cash equivalents 21 (4,659) (907) 323 (54) — (5,297)
Current investments held at fair value 18 (601) 99 41 (52) — (513)
34,640 (3,493) 674 (568) — 31,253
2023
£m
Fair value,
accrued
Opening Foreign interest and Closing
Notes balance Cash flow exchange other Held for Sale balance
Borrowings (excluding lease liabilities)* 42,622 (1,638) (1,956) 204 — 39,232
Lease liabilities 517 (162) (25) 168 — 498
Derivatives in respect of net debt 19 167 (238) 564 (323) — 170
Cash and cash equivalents 21 (3,446) (1,101) 30 226 (368) (4,659)
Current investments held at fair value 18 (579) (22) 49 (49) — (601)
39,281 (3,161) (1,338) 226 (368) 34,640
Note:
* Borrowings as at 31 December 2024 include £670 million (2023: £700 million) in respect of the purchase price adjustments relating to the acquisition of Reynolds American.
In the table above, movements in accrued interest relate to the net movement year-on-year and cash flows related to interest payments
are not included.
Fair value, accrued interest and other’ movements in lease liabilities in 2024 mainly comprise additions of £279 million (2023: £168 million)
(net of reassessments, modifications and terminations), see note 13(a). Included within the £279 million (2023: £168 million) are new lease
liabilities of £12 million (2023: £nil million) mainly arising from sale and leaseback transactions. The movement of £52 million
(2023: £49 million) in current investments held at fair value represents the fair value gains for these investments.
2024 2023
£m £m
Cash flows per net debt statement (3,493) (3,161)
Non-financing cash flows included in net debt 773 1,126
Interest paid (1,703) (1,682)
Interest element of lease liabilities (37) (30)
Remaining cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments 5 (242)
Purchases of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts (94) (110)
Purchase of own shares (698) —
Coupon paid on perpetual hybrid bonds (56) (59)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (5,213) (5,055)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (121) (105)
Other 5 4
Net cash used in financing activities per cash flow statement (10,632) (9,314)
326
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
24 Provisions for liabilities
Restructuring Employee- Proposed
of existing related Plans in Other
businesses benefits Fox River Canada provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 2024 139 42 44 — 774 999
Differences on exchange (5) (2) — — (57) (64)
Provided in respect of the year* (15) 15 — 6,203 111 6,314
Utilised during the year (54) (13) — — (67) (134)
31 December 2024 65 42 44 6,203 761 7,115
Analysed on the balance sheet as
– current 33 11 2 2,456 542 3,044
– non-current 32 31 42 3,747 219 4,071
65 42 44 6,203 761 7,115
Restructuring Employee-
of existing related DOJ and OFAC Other
businesses benefits Fox River investigations provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 2023 297 44 54 450 676 1,521
Differences on exchange (32) (4) — — (46) (82)
Provided in respect of the year* (21) 13 — (450) 240 (218)
Utilised during the year (105) (11) (10) — (96) (222)
31 December 2023 139 42 44 — 774 999
Analysed on the balance sheet as
– current 96 13 3 — 356 468
– non-current 43 29 41 — 418 531
139 42 44 — 774 999
Note:
* Amounts provided above are shown net of reversals of unused provisions which include reversals of £21 million (2023: £42 million) for restructuring of existing businesses,
£12 million (2023: £14 million) for employee benefits and £412 million (2023: £128 million) for other provisions. Included in the £412 million is an amount of £270 million which relates to
interest provision for FII GLO and which was reclassified to trade and other payables in 2024. For the DOJ and OFAC investigations, the £450 million that was provided for in 2022 was
reclassified to trade and other payables in 2023.
Restructuring of existing businesses
The restructuring provisions relate to the restructuring and integration costs incurred and are reported as adjusting items. The principal
restructuring activities in 2022 are described in note 7 and primarily include the cost of employee packages and long-term social plans
associated with redundancy programmes from previous years, mainly in relation to Quantum. Since 2022, no further Quantum
restructuring charges have been recognised as adjusting following the completion of the Quantum programme. Provisions associated
with redundancy packages are determined based on termination packages offered in each country. The long-term social plans primarily
relate to social plans in Germany, which span over several years and are based on actuarial calculations. These are discounted to present
value using Central Bank rates. We do not consider the effect of discounting to be material. The provisions for long-term social plans
include future payments related to contracts that are already fixed. Given that there is little or no variability expected in the timing and
amount of the payments, no additional risk has been incorporated in the discounting. While some elements of the non-current provisions
of £32 million will unwind over several years, as termination payments are made over extended periods in some countries, it is estimated
that approximately 98% of these non-current provisions will unwind within five years.
Employee-related benefits
Employee-related benefits mainly relate to employee benefits other than post-employment benefits. The principal components of these
provisions are gratuity and termination awards, ‘jubilee’ payments due after a certain service period and expected payments associated
with long-term disability. The majority of these provisions are calculated by actuaries. It is estimated that approximately 67% of the non-
current provisions of £31 million will unwind within five years.
Fox River
A provision of £274 million was made in 2011 for a potential claim under a 1998 settlement agreement entered into by a Group subsidiary
in respect of the clean-up of sediment in the Fox River. On 30 September 2014, the Group, NCR, Appvion and Windward Prospects
entered into a funding agreement; the details of this agreement are explained in note 31. Under this agreement, payments of less than
£1 million were made in 2024 and 2023. In 2023, the Group incurred legal costs of £10 million which were also charged against the
provision. It is expected that the non-current provision will unwind within five years.
327
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Proposed Plans in Canada
CCAA Proceedings
In March 2019, ITCAN obtained an Initial Order from the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granting it protection under the Companies’
Creditors Arrangement Act (CCAA). Under a confidential court supervised mediation process, ITCAN has been negotiating a possible
settlement of all of its outstanding tobacco litigation in Canada while continuing to run its business in the normal course. On 17 October 2024,
the court-appointed mediator and monitor filed a proposed plan of compromise and arrangement in the Ontario Superior Court of
Justice. Substantially similar proposed plans were also filed for Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. (RBH, a subsidiary of Philip Morris
International Inc.) and JTI-Macdonald Corp. (JTIM, a subsidiary of Japan Tobacco International) (collectively, the Proposed Plans).
Under the Proposed Plans, if ultimately sanctioned and implemented, ITCAN, RBH and JTIM (the Companies) would pay an aggregate
settlement amount of CAD$32.5 billion (£18.0 billion). This amount would be funded by:
–an upfront payment equal to all the Companies' cash and cash equivalents on hand (including investments held at fair value) plus
certain court deposits (subject to an aggregate industry withholding of CAD$750 million (£416 million)) plus 85% of any cash tax
refunds that may be received by the Companies on account of the upfront payments; and
–annual payments based on a percentage (initially 85%, reducing over time) of each of the Companies’ net income after taxes, based
on amounts generated from all sources, excluding New Categories, until the aggregate settlement amount is paid. The performance
of ITCAN’s New Categories (including vapour products and nicotine pouches) is not included in the basis for calculating the
annual payments.
These Proposed Plans, if ultimately sanctioned and implemented, would resolve ITCAN’s outstanding tobacco litigation in Canada and
provide a full and comprehensive release to ITCAN, BAT p.l.c. and all related companies for all tobacco claims in Canada.
On 31 October 2024, the court hearing to rule on the Claims Procedure Orders and Meeting Orders took place and these were granted.
In accordance with the Meeting Order, a creditors' meeting was held on 12 December 2024 and the Proposed Plans were approved by
the requisite majorities of the creditors. A sanction hearing took place between 29-31 January 2025. During the sanction hearing, the
Court was asked to sanction the Proposed Plans. The Court’s decision is currently pending and the stays are extended until 3 March
2025, or such time as the Court's decision on the sanction order is released.
Upfront payment
If the Proposed Plans to settle all outstanding and future Canadian tobacco litigation are sanctioned and implemented, ITCAN will be
required to pay into the settlement fund cash and cash equivalents on hand and investments held at fair value in Canada plus certain
court deposits (subject to an aggregate withholding of CAD$750 million (£416 million) for the Companies working capital inclusive of
cash pledged as collateral). At 31 December 2024, a provision of CAD$4,423 million (£2,456 million) has been recognised in relation to this
liability. Subject to the sanction order, the cash is expected to be paid in 2025.
Future payments
As the terms of the Proposed Plans dictate, there is no predetermined amount that ITCAN or any of the Companies individually are
required to pay. ITCAN and the other Companies are required to make annual payments based on a percentage of net income after tax
generated from all sources, excluding New Categories, until the Companies settle the liability in full. In accordance with IAS 37, a
provision has been recognised to reflect management's best estimate of ITCAN's total payments under the Proposed Plans. The
provision is based on Management’s best estimate using a five-year cash flow forecast that incorporates certain assumptions used in
the value-in-use model and which are used to support the carrying value of the Canadian CGU for goodwill impairment testing purposes,
such as the rate at which volumes will decline, future pricing plans and terminal decline. In addition, certain assumptions specific to the
provision have been incorporated including the future financial performance of each of the Companies (excluding New Categories),
enacted tax laws and the pre-tax discount rate. A pre-tax discount rate of 3.27% reflecting the risk free rate specific to Canada and
aligned with the anticipated timeline for the payments has been used to calculate the present value of the provision. At 31 December
2024, the provision is CAD$6,750 million (£3,747 million).
Management uses judgement to determine the key assumptions used to calculate the present value of the provision. Changes to key
assumptions can significantly impact the amount expected to be paid and the years over which payments are expected to be made.
The key assumptions used to calculate the provision are the rate at which volumes will decline and future pricing plans. The impact of
reasonably possible changes to these key assumptions on an individual basis has been outlined below.
–Rate at which volumes will decline: If volumes were to decline by an additional 3% then the provision would decrease by £568 million.
However, if the rate at which volumes decline is lower by 3% the provision would increase by £176 million; and
–Execution of future pricing plans: ITCAN’s future pricing plans are incorporated into the calculation of the provision. Pricing delivery
is subject to competitive actions and the relative pricing positions of brands and may vary depending on the competitive market
conditions. If ITCAN’s pricing delivery is between 60% to 120% of the base assumptions, the provision would decrease by £434 million
or increase by £71 million, respectively.
The above sensitivities have been considered in isolation and a combination of changes in several assumptions, including the future
financial performance of each of the Companies (excluding New Categories), may materially impact the provision.
The first payment of the annual contribution will be calculated using the 2025 financial results of ITCAN and a payable will be recognised
with a corresponding release of the provision. The annual contribution payable will be settled within the second half of the following
year. The payments will continue until the aggregate settlement amount is paid. It is expected that payments will continue for the next
20-30 years.
The provision will be reviewed on a bi-annual basis and revised to reflect changes resulting from reversals, the unwinding of the discount
and changes in assumptions. The revisions of the provision will be recognised in the income statement as an adjusting item.
Refer to note 31 for further information in relation to Canada litigation.
DOJ/OFAC investigations
As discussed earlier (in note 6(h)), on 25 April 2023, the Group announced that it had reached an agreement with the DOJ and OFAC
for a total amount payable to the U.S. authorities of US$635 million plus interest. Having recognised an initial provision of £450 million
(US$540 million) in 2022, the Group has recognised an additional charge of £75 million in 2023. During 2023, as a result of payment terms
being finalised, the provision was reversed and the liability was transferred to sundry payables. Refer to note 25.
328
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Other
Other provisions comprise balances set up in the ordinary course of general business that cannot be classified within the other
categories, such as sales returns and onerous contracts together with amounts in respect of supplier, excise and other disputes.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of disputes is such that the extent and timing of cash flows are difficult to estimate
and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
In accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, sales return provisions are recognised based on a reasonable
estimate of likely returns. In 2024, the sales return provision, included in other provisions, was £106 million (2023: £55 million).
Included within other provisions was a provision for interest of £270 million (2023: £244 million) in relation to the Franked Investment
Income Group Litigation Order (FII GLO). As a result of the Group agreeing to repay £0.8 billion to HMRC, as mentioned in note 10(b),
the interest provision has been transferred to payables.
In 2024, the Group recognised a provision of £51 million for deferred consideration in relation with the acquisition of Beni Oral Nicotine
LLC. The consideration is up to US$200 million (£160 million), deferred for five years and subject to the achievement of certain
milestones. The fair value of the contingent consideration has been determined using a Monte Carlo simulation for the different
scenarios and discounted. Refer to note 27(a) for more details.
Other provisions also include:
(i) provisions of £113 million for interest on tax exposures;
(ii) a provision of £77 million recognised by BAT Brazil (2023: £89 million) in relation to litigation-related deposits as explained in note 17
and an amount of £37 million (2023: £40 million) recognised by BAT Brazil in relation to a legal case over whether a 10% tax imposed
on a tax benefit associated with investment grants by the Rio de Janeiro State was constitutional (as explained in note 6(k)); and
(iii) a provision of £59 million related to an excise assessment of activities undertaken in the Ploiesti factory in Romania.
25 Trade and other payables
2024 2023
£m £m
Trade payables 1,709 1,707
Master settlement agreement (U.S.) 1,520 1,788
Duty, excise and other taxes 2,893 2,994
Accrued charges and deferred income 2,725 2,608
FII GLO (note 10(b)) 1,118 863
Social security and other taxation 34 46
Sundry payables 236 587
10,235 10,593
Current 9,550 9,700
Non-current 685 893
10,235 10,593
Supplier Financing Arrangements
The Group has certain supplier financing arrangements or ‘reverse factoring’ arrangements in place. The principal purpose of these
arrangements is to provide the supplier with the option to access liquidity earlier through the sale of its receivables due from the Group
to a bank or other financial institution prior to their due date. Management has determined that the Group’s payables to these suppliers
have neither been extinguished nor have the liabilities been significantly modified by these arrangements. The value of amounts payable,
invoice due dates and other terms and conditions applicable, from the Group’s perspective, remain unaltered, with only the ultimate
payee being changed. Non-cash movements were immaterial. The cash outflows in respect of these arrangements have been
recognised within operating cash flows.
2024 2023
£m £m
Supplier Financing Arrangements
Total Amounts available for financing reported within trade payables 180 204
Amounts accepted by financial institutions for early financing 179 201
Amounts for which suppliers have received payment 157 71
Analysed as:
Leaf payables Amounts available for financing reported within trade payables 90 110
Amounts accepted by financial institution for early financing 90 110
Amounts for which suppliers have received payment 84 —
Other payables Amounts available for financing reported within trade payables 90 94
Amounts accepted by financial institution for early financing 89 91
Amounts for which suppliers have received payment 73 71
329
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
2024 2023
Range of payment due dates Lower Upper Lower Upper
Leaf suppliers (note 1) Trade payables part of the arrangement 90 days 150 days Note 1
Trade payables that are not part of the arrangement 1 day 120 days Note 1
Logistics suppliers Trade payables part of the arrangement 45 days 135 days — *
Trade payables that are not part of the arrangement 1 day 180 days — *
Raw materials and consumables Trade payables part of the arrangement 60 days 180 days — *
suppliers (excl. leaf) Trade payables that are not part of the arrangement 1 day 240 days — *
Other suppliers Trade payables part of the arrangement 30 days 180 days — *
Trade payables that are not part of the arrangement 1 day 270 days — *
Note:
Suppliers are subject to various payment due dates depending on the jurisdiction and standard practices. The Group’s payment terms commence from the invoice date. However,
for certain categories of external suppliers and in alignment with industry standards, payment terms begin from the date a valid invoice is received.
* The Group applied transitional relief available under Supplier Finance Arrangements – Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7 and has not provided comparative information in the first year
of adoption.
Note 1: Leaf suppliers are subject to various payment due dates depending on the jurisdiction and standard practices. In certain
countries, the leaf suppliers who are not part of supplier financing arrangements are paid in advance or on the next working day. In 2023,
the standard payment due date for the leaf supplier utilising supplier financing arrangements was 150 days.
Accrued charges and deferred income
Accrued charges and deferred income include £20 million of deferred income (2023: £18 million) relating to certain customer deposits
in advance of shipments and £29 million (2023: £82 million) in respect of interest payable mainly related to tax matters.
FII GLO
FII GLO includes £813 million (2023: £863 million) relating to receipts in 2015, in respect of the Franked Investment Income Government
Litigation Order (note 10(b)).
During 2024, as a result of the Group agreeing to repay £0.8 billion to HMRC, as mentioned in note 10(b), interest accrued has been
transferred from provisions to payables. The interest accrued at 31 December 2023 was £244 million and when combined with the
current year interest charge of £61 million (refer to note 8(b)), the total interest payable recognised in relation to FII GLO is £305 million.
The interest will be payable from 2026 and has been classified as a non-current payable. The interest is calculated based on the UK
central bank base rate plus 2% and has been charged to net finance costs.
In line with the repayment schedule, £479 million of FII GLO has been recognised as a current payable.
Sundry payables
As explained in note 17, the Group acts as a collection agent for banks and other financial institutions in certain debtor factoring
arrangements. The cash collected in respect of these arrangements that has not yet been remitted amounts to £124 million
(2023: £138 million) and is included in sundry payables.
In 2023, the Group announced that it had reached an agreement with the DOJ and OFAC to resolve previously disclosed investigations
into historical sanctions breaches. Included within sundry payables was US$326 million (£263 million) plus interest representing the third
and final payment due. This was paid in the first half of 2024. Refer to notes 6(h) and 24 for more information.
Other
Included in borrowings is £65 million (2023: £71 million) transferred from trade and other payables.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other payables and their fair value due to the short-term
duration of the majority of trade and other payables, as determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
Trade and other payables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings with less than 7%
in other currencies (2023: less than 10% in other currencies).
Amounts payable to related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 30.
330
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
26 Financial instruments and risk management As part of its short-term cash management, the Group invests in a
Management of financial risks range of cash and cash equivalents, including money market funds,
One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is to manage which are regarded as highly liquid and are not exposed to significant
the financial risks arising from the Group’s underlying changes in fair value. These are kept under continuous review as
operations. Specifically, Treasury manages, within an overall described in the credit risk section below. At 31 December 2024,
policy framework set by the Group’s Main Board and Corporate the Group had £433 million invested in money market funds
Finance Committee (CFC), the Group’s exposure to funding and (2023: £173 million).
liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty risks. As part of its working capital management, in certain countries,
The Group’s treasury position is monitored by the CFC which the Group has entered into factoring arrangements and supply
meets regularly throughout the year and is chaired by the Chief chain financing arrangements. These are explained in further detail
Financial Officer. The approach is one of risk reduction within an in note 17 and note 25.
overall framework of delivering total shareholder return.
Subsidiary companies are funded by share capital and retained
The Group defines capital as net debt (note 23) and equity (note 22). earnings, loans from the central finance companies on commercial
There are no externally imposed capital requirements for the terms, or through local borrowings by the subsidiaries in
Group. Group policies include a set of financing principles that appropriate currencies to predominantly fund short- to medium-
provide a framework within which the Group’s capital base is term working capital requirements.
managed and, in particular, the policies on dividends (as a
Available facilities in current year:
percentage of long-term sustainable earnings) and share buy-back
It is Group policy that short-term sources of funds (including
are decided. The key objective of the financing principles is to
drawings under both the Group US$4 billion U.S. commercial
appropriately balance the interests of equity and debt holders in
paper (U.S. CP) programme and the Group £3 billion euro
driving an efficient financing mix for the Group. The Group’s
commercial paper (ECP) programme) are backed by undrawn
average cost of debt in 2024 is 4.9% (2023: 5.2%; excluding
committed lines of credit and cash. Commercial paper is issued
adjusting items, of which the Group incurred a £151 million fair
by B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c., B.A.T. Netherlands Finance
value loss on debt-related derivatives in relation to the early
B.V. and B.A.T Capital Corporation and guaranteed by British
repurchase of bonds, the average cost of debt was 4.8%).
American Tobacco p.l.c. At 31 December 2024, commercial paper
The Group manages its financial risks in line with the classification of £nil million was outstanding (2023: £nil million). Cash flows
of its financial assets and liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet relating to commercial paper that have maturity periods of three
and related notes. The Group’s management of specific risks is months or less are presented on a net basis in the Group’s cash
dealt with as follows: flow statement.
Liquidity risk At 31 December 2024, the Group had access to a £5.4 billion
It is the policy of the Group to maximise financial flexibility revolving credit facility. With effect from March 2024, the Group
and minimise refinancing risk by issuing debt with a range of exercised the first of the one-year extension options on the
maturities, generally matching the projected cash flows of the £2.5 billion 364-day tranche of the revolving credit facility, with the
Group and obtaining this financing from a wide range of sources. second one-year extension subsequently exercised in February
The Group has a target average centrally managed debt maturity 2025. Effective March 2025, therefore, the £2.5 billion 364-day
of at least five years with no more than 20% of centrally managed tranche will be extended to March 2026. Additionally, £2.85 billion
debt maturing in a single rolling year. As at 31 December 2024, of the five-year tranche remains available until March 2025, with
the average centrally managed debt maturity was 9.5 years (2023: £2.7 billion extended to March 2026 and £2.5 billion extended to
10.5 years) and the highest proportion of centrally managed debt March 2027.
maturing in a single rolling year was 14.8% (2023: 15.7%). Perpetual
During 2024, the Group extended short-term bilateral facilities
hybrid bonds are treated as equity (note 22(d)) and therefore not
totalling £2.4 billion. As at 31 December 2024, £nil million was
included within the debt maturity analysis.
drawn on a short-term basis with £2.4 billion undrawn and still
The Group utilises cash pooling and zero balancing bank account available under such bilateral facilities. Cash flows relating to
structures in addition to intercompany loans and borrowings to bilateral facilities that have maturity periods of three months or less
mobilise cash efficiently within the Group. The key objectives of are presented on a net basis in the Group’s cash flow statement.
Treasury in respect of cash and cash equivalents are to protect
In January 2025, the Group entered into a medium-term facility of
their principal value, to concentrate cash at the centre, to minimise
£503 million (equivalent) which was fully drawn.
the required debt issuance and to optimise the yield earned. The
amount of debt issued by the Group is determined by forecasting Issuance, drawdowns and repayments in current year:
the net debt requirement after the mobilisation of cash. –In February 2024, the Group accessed the US dollar market under
the SEC Shelf Programme, raising a total of US$1.7 billion across
The Group continues to target a solid investment-grade credit
two tranches;
rating. Moody’s, S&P's and Fitch's current ratings for the Group
are Baa1 (stable outlook), BBB+ (stable outlook), BBB+ (stable –In March 2024, the Group repaid a £229 million bond at maturity;
outlook), respectively. The Group is confident of its continued –In April 2024, the Group accessed the Euro market under its
ability to successfully access the debt capital markets for future EMTN Programme, raising a total of €900 million;
refinancing requirements.
–To optimise the Group’s debt capital structure using available
liquidity and to reduce gross and net debt, the Group completed
capped cash debt tender offers in May 2024, targeting series of
low-priced, long-dated GBP-, EUR- and USD-denominated
bonds, pursuant to which the Group repurchased bonds prior to
their maturity in a principal amount of £1.8 billion (equivalent); and
–In August, September and October 2024, the Group repaid
US$1.9 billion, US$1 billion and €850 million of bonds at
maturity, respectively.
331
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Available facilities in prior year: (ii) forecast dividend flows from subsidiaries to the centre. To
At 31 December 2023, the Group had access to a £5.4 billion ensure cash flow certainty, the Group enters into forward foreign
revolving credit facility. In March 2023, the Group refinanced the exchange contracts which are designated as net investment
£2.7 billion 364-day tranche of the revolving credit facility at the hedges of the foreign exchange risk arising from the investments
reduced amount of £2.5 billion, maturing in March 2024 with two in these subsidiaries.
one-year extension options, and a one-year term out option. IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires a sensitivity
Additionally, £2.85 billion of the five-year tranche remains available analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and
until March 2025, with £2.7 billion extended to March 2026 and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income
£2.5 billion extended to March 2027. of hypothetical changes of exchange rates in respect of non-
During 2023, the Group extended short-term bilateral facilities functional currency financial assets and liabilities held across the
totalling £2.65 billion. As at 31 December 2023, £100 million was Group. All other variables are held constant although, in practice,
drawn on a short-term basis with £2.55 billion undrawn and still market rates rarely change in isolation. Financial assets and
available under such bilateral facilities. Cash flows relating to liabilities held in the functional currency of the Group’s subsidiaries,
bilateral facilities that have maturity periods of three months or less as well as non-financial assets and liabilities and translation risk,
are presented on a net basis in the Group’s cash flow statement. are not included in the analysis. The Group considers a 10%
strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the
Issuance, drawdowns and repayments in prior year:
non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible
–In January 2023, the Group repaid a €750 million bond at maturity;
change. The impact is calculated with reference to the financial
–In February 2023, the Group accessed the Euro market under its asset or liability held as at the year-end, unless this is
EMTN Programme, raising a total of €800 million; unrepresentative of the position during the year.
–In May 2023, the Group repaid a total of US$48 million of bonds A 10% strengthening of functional currencies against
at maturity; non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being
–Given the refinancing levels in the medium term and to reduce £94 million lower (2023: £61 million lower; 2022: £49 million lower)
near term refinancing risks, in August 2023, the Group accessed and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income
the US dollar market under its SEC Shelf Programme, raising a being £342 million higher (2023: £273 million higher; 2022:
total of US$5 billion across five tranches whilst also announcing £445 million higher). A 10% weakening of functional currencies
a concurrent capped debt tender offer, targeting a series of GBP-, against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax
EUR- and USD-denominated bonds maturing between 2024 and profit being £114 million higher (2023: £72 million higher;
2027. Pursuant to this tender offer, BAT repurchased bonds prior 2022: £60 million higher) and items recognised directly
to their maturity in a principal amount of £3.1 billion; and in other comprehensive income being £418 million lower
(2023: £333 million lower; 2022: £543 million lower).
–In September, October and November 2023, the Group repaid
US$550 million, €800 million and €750 million of bonds at The exchange sensitivities on items recognised directly in other
maturity, respectively. comprehensive income relate to hedging of certain net asset
currency positions in the Group, as well as on cash flow hedges
Currency risk
in respect of future transactions, but do not include sensitivities
The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the net
in respect of exchange on non-financial assets or liabilities.
assets of foreign currency subsidiaries and associates into its
reporting currency, sterling. The Group’s primary balance sheet Interest rate risk
translation exposures are to the US dollar, Euro, Australian dollar, The objectives of the Group’s interest rate risk management policy
Indian rupee, Canadian dollar, South African rand, Indonesian are to lessen the impact of adverse interest rate movements on
rupiah, Danish krone, Singaporean dollar and Swiss franc. These the earnings, cash flow and economic value of the Group.
exposures are kept under continuous review. The Group’s policy on Additional objectives are to minimise the cost of hedging and the
borrowings is to broadly match the currency of these borrowings associated counterparty risk.
with the currency of cash flows arising from the Group’s In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group maintains both
underlying operations. Within this overall policy, the Group aims floating rate and fixed rate debt. The Group sets targets (within
to minimise all balance sheet translation exposure where it is overall guidelines) for the desired ratio of floating to fixed rate debt
practicable and cost-effective to do so through matching currency on a net basis (at least 50% fixed on a net basis in the short to
assets with currency borrowings. The main objective of these medium term) as a result of regular reviews of market conditions
policies is to protect shareholder value by increasing certainty and and strategy by the Corporate Finance Committee and the board
minimising volatility in earnings per share. At 31 December 2024, of the main central finance company. Underlying borrowings are
the currency profile of the Group’s gross debt, after taking into arranged on both a fixed rate and a floating rate basis and, where
account derivative contracts, was 74% US dollar (2023: 72%), appropriate, the Group uses derivatives, primarily interest rate
14% euro (2023: 14%), 8% sterling (2023: 9%) and 4% other swaps to vary the fixed and floating mix, or forward starting swaps
currencies (2023: 5%). to manage the refinancing risk. The interest rate profile of liquid
The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation assets included in net debt are considered to offset floating rate
of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates debt and are taken into account in determining the net interest
and joint arrangements; these exposures are not normally hedged. rate exposure. At 31 December 2024, the relevant ratio of floating
Exposures also arise from: to fixed rate borrowings after the impact of derivatives was 22:78
(2023: 10:90). On a net debt basis, after offsetting liquid assets and
(i) foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken
excluding cash and other liquid assets (including investments held
by subsidiaries. These exposures comprise committed and highly
at fair value) in Canada, which are subject to certain restrictions
probable forecast sales and purchases, which are offset wherever
under CCAA protection, the ratio of floating to fixed rate borrowings
possible. The remaining exposures are hedged within the Treasury
was 13:87 (2023: 2:98).
policies and procedures with forward foreign exchange contracts
and options, which are designated as hedges of the foreign
exchange risk of the identified future transactions; and
332
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on The Group ensures that it has sufficient counterparty credit
the income statement and on items recognised directly in other capacity of requisite quality to undertake all anticipated
comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of interest rates transactions throughout its geographic footprint, while at the
in respect of financial assets and liabilities of the Group. All other same time ensuring that there is no geographic concentration
variables are held constant although, in practice, market rates in the location of counterparties.
rarely change in isolation. For the purposes of this sensitivity With the following exceptions, the maximum exposure to the
analysis, financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rates credit risk of financial assets at the balance sheet date is reflected
are not included. The Group considers a 100 basis point change by the carrying values included in the Group’s balance sheet. The
in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates Group has entered into short-term risk participation agreements
are less than 100 basis points. In these instances, it is assumed in relation to certain leaf supply arrangements and the maximum
that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease exposure under these would be £52 million (2023: £51 million).
to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis. In addition, the Group has entered into a guarantee arrangement
The impact is calculated with reference to the financial asset to support a short-term bank credit facility with a supply chain
or liability held as at the year-end, unless this is unrepresentative partner. The maximum exposure under the arrangement would
of the position during the year. be £1 million (2023: £1 million).
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in pre-tax Price risk
profit being £13 million higher (2023: £5 million lower;
The Group is exposed to price risk on investments held by the
2022: £50 million lower). A 100 basis point decrease in interest rates,
Group, which are included in investments held at fair value on
or less where applicable, would result in pre-tax profit being
the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is
£13 million lower (2023: £5 million higher; 2022: £50 million higher).
not material.
The effect of these interest rate changes on items recognised
Hedge accounting
directly in other comprehensive income is not material in either year.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to
Following the decision taken by global regulators in 2018 to replace
document prospectively the economic relationship between the
Interbank Offered Rates with alternative nearly risk-free rates,
item being hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group is also
such benchmark rates were expected to be largely discontinued
required to demonstrate an assessment of the economic
after 2021.
relationship between the hedged item and the hedging
The Group is party to the ISDA fallback protocol and in January instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective
2022, it automatically replaced the GBP LIBOR with economically on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness testing is repeated
equivalent interest rate derivatives referencing SONIA on periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is
their reset date with the impacted derivatives maturing in expected to remain, highly effective. The prospective effectiveness
October 2023. testing determines that an economic relationship between the
Credit risk hedged item and the hedging instrument exists.
The Group has no significant concentrations of customer credit In accordance with the Group Treasury Policy, the exact hedge
risk. Subsidiaries have policies in place requiring appropriate credit ratios and profile of a hedge relationship will depend on several
checks on potential customers before sales commence. The factors, including the desired degree of certainty and reduced
process for monitoring and managing credit risk once sales to volatility of net interest costs and market conditions, trends and
customers have been made varies depending on local practice expectations in the relevant markets. The sources of
in the countries concerned. ineffectiveness include spot and forward differences, impact of
Certain territories have bank guarantees, other guarantees or time value and timing differences between periods in the hedged
credit insurance provided in the Group’s favour in respect of Group item and hedging instrument.
trade receivables, the issuance and terms of which are dependent The Group’s risk management strategy has been explained in
on local practices in the countries concerned. All derivatives are further detail under the interest rate risk and currency risk sections
subject to ISDA agreements or equivalent documentation. of this note.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit Fair value estimation
risk on the amounts due from the related counterparties. The fair values of financial assets and liabilities with maturities
Generally, the Group aims to transact with counterparties with of less than one year, other than derivatives, are assumed to
strong investment grade credit ratings. However, the Group approximate their book values. For other financial instruments
recognises that due to the need to operate over a large geographic which are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, the basis
footprint, this will not always be possible. Counterparty credit risk for fair values is described below.
is managed on a global basis by limiting the aggregate amount and
duration of exposure to any one counterparty, taking into account
its credit rating. The credit ratings of all counterparties are
reviewed regularly.
333
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Fair value hierarchy
In accordance with IFRS 13 classification hierarchy, the following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are
measured at fair value:
2024 2023
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at fair value
Investment held at fair value 18 447 — 212 659 527 — 192 719
Derivatives relating to
– interest rate swaps 19 — 11 — 11 — 10 — 10
– cross-currency swaps 19 — 100 — 100 — 115 — 115
– forward foreign currency contracts 19 — 185 — 185 — 165 — 165
Assets at fair value 447 296 212 955 527 290 192 1,009
Liabilities at fair value
Derivatives relating to
– interest rate swaps 19 — 270 — 270 — 187 — 187
– cross-currency swaps 19 — 16 — 16 — 13 — 13
– forward foreign currency contracts 19 — 131 — 131 — 195 — 195
– embedded derivative relating to
associates 19 — 7 — 7 — — — —
Liabilities at fair value — 424 — 424 — 395 — 395
Level 2 financial instruments are not traded in an active market, but the fair values are based on quoted market prices, broker/dealer
quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. The Group’s level 2 financial instruments include
OTC derivatives.
Netting arrangements of derivative financial instruments
The gross fair value of derivative financial instruments as presented in the Group balance sheet, together with the Group’s rights
of offset associated with recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities subject to enforceable master netting
arrangements and similar agreements, is summarised as follows:
2024 2023
Related Related
Amount amounts not Amount amounts not
presented in offset in the presented in offset in the
the Group Group the Group Group
balance balance balance balance
sheet* sheet Net amount sheet* sheet Net amount
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
– Derivative financial instruments (note 19) 296 (184) 112 290 (199) 91
Financial liabilities
– Derivative financial instruments (note 19) (424) 184 (240) (395) 199 (196)
(128) — (128) (105) — (105)
Note:
* No financial instruments have been offset in the Group balance sheet.
The Group is subject to master netting arrangements in force with financial counterparties with whom the Group trades derivatives.
The master netting arrangements determine the proceedings should either party default on their obligations. In case of any event
of default, the non-defaulting party will calculate the sum of the replacement cost of outstanding transactions and amounts owed to
it by the defaulting party. If that sum exceeds the amounts owed to the defaulting party, the defaulting party will pay the balance to the
non-defaulting party. If the sum is less than the amounts owed to the defaulting party, the non-defaulting party will pay the balance to
the defaulting party.
334
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The hedged items by risk category are presented below:
2024
Accumulated amount
of fair value hedge
adjustments on the
hedged item included Line item in the Changes in fair
in the carrying statement of value used for Cash flow hedge
Carrying amount of amount of the financial position calculating hedge reserve (gross
the hedged item hedged item where the hedged ineffectiveness of tax)
£m £m item is included £m £m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk
– borrowings (liabilities) 8,750 215 Borrowings 63 —
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate risk
– borrowings (liabilities) 734 — Borrowings (18) (268)
2023
Accumulated amount
of fair value hedge
adjustments on the
hedged item included Line item in the Changes in fair
in the carrying statement of value used for Cash flow hedge
Carrying amount of amount of the financial position calculating hedge reserve (gross
the hedged item hedged item where the hedged ineffectiveness of tax)
£m £m item is included £m £m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk
– borrowings (liabilities) 5,935 110 Borrowings (81)
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate risk
– borrowings (liabilities) 858 Borrowings 26 (362)
£363 million (2023: £380 million) of the Group’s borrowings are designated as net investment hedge instruments of the Group’s net
investments in foreign operations. In line with the Group’s risk management policies, the net investment hedge relationships are
reviewed periodically. The change in the value used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness for hedged items designated under net
investment hedge relationships is £17 million (2023: £9 million).
As at 31 December 2024, the accumulated balance of the cash flow hedge reserve was a loss of £84 million (2023: loss of £194 million)
including an accumulated loss of £268 million (2023: loss of £362 million) in relation to interest rate exposure and foreign currency
exposure arising from borrowings held by the Group, and an accumulated gain of £54 million (2023: gain of £77 million) in relation to
deferred tax arising from cash flow hedges. The remainder related to the Group’s foreign currency exposure on forecasted transactions
and cost of hedging (note 22(c)(ii)).
335
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
27 Changes in the Group In 2023, the Group announced the signing of an agreement for a
The Group acquired certain businesses and other assets as noted further investment of CAD$125 million (£74 million) in Organigram,
below. The financial impact of these transactions to the Group subject to customary conditions, including necessary approvals by
were immaterial individually and in aggregate. Except as noted, the shareholders of Organigram, which was given on 18 January
there were no material differences between the fair value and book 2024. On 24 January 2024, BAT made the first tranche investment
values of net assets acquired in business combinations. of CAD$42 million (£24 million) acquiring a further 12,893,175
common shares of Organigram at a price of CAD$3.22 per share.
(a) Acquisitions
On 30 August 2024, BAT made the second tranche investment of
Beni Oral Nicotine LLC
CAD$42 million (£24 million) acquiring a further 4,429,740
On 15 July 2024, the Group acquired Beni Oral Nicotine LLC, a U.S.
common shares and 8,463,435 preferred shares of Organigram at
company owning rights to a portfolio of tobacco-free oral use
a price of CAD$3.22 per share. Subject to certain conditions, the
synthetic nicotine pouches, for upfront consideration of
final 12,893,175 shares subscribed for shall be issued at the same
US$30 million (£23 million), and deferred payments of contingent
price as the previous two tranches by the end of February 2025.
consideration of up to US$200 million (£160 million) deferred for
The additional investment in 2024 increased the Group's interest
5 years, subject to the achievement of certain milestones. The
in Organigram at that time to 35.09%. Under the terms of the
transaction has been accounted for as an asset acquisition, rather
agreement, the Group’s voting rights are restricted
than as a business combination, as the intellectual property
to 30%.
acquired does not represent an integrated set of activities required
by IFRS for business combination accounting. Consequently, the Part of the proceeds from the Group’s reinvestment have been
best estimate of consideration payable has been allocated to the earmarked for “Jupiter”, a strategic investment pool designed to
acquired assets by relative fair value. expand Organigram’s geographic footprint and capitalise on
emerging growth opportunities. During the year, Organigram has
(b) Associated undertakings
made certain investments, largely in the form of convertible loan
(i) ITC Limited
notes, into Sanity Group GmbH and Steady State LLC, both of
On 13 March 2024, the Group announced the divestment of 12% which are associated undertakings of the Group.
of its equity stake in ITC Limited (the equivalent of 3.5% of ITC's
On 6 December 2024, Organigram announced the 100% acquisition
ordinary shares) to institutional investors by way of an accelerated
of Motif Labs Ltd. and the consideration included CAD$40 million
bookbuild process (Block Trade). The Block Trade sale generated
of Organigram common shares. As a result, the Group's interest
net proceeds after transaction costs and taxes of INR166.9 billion in Organigram reduced to c.30.6%.
(£1.6 billion) which were then repatriated to the UK in a series of
(iii) Other investments
foreign exchange transactions in the days following the sale. The
In April 2023, the Group announced a strategic joint venture
transaction was subject to applicable tax laws in India and the UK,
agreement between a Group subsidiary, AJNA BioSciences PBC,
and proceeds were remitted net of withheld Indian Capital Gains
and Charlotte’s Web. Under the terms of the transaction, a Group
Tax of INR5.7 billion (£54 million). Following completion of the
subsidiary acquired a 19.9% stake in the new entity, DeFloria LLC,
transaction, BAT has remained a significant shareholder of ITC, at a cost of £8 million (US$10 million). During 2024, the Group
with a 25.45% holding, and has continued to account for ITC as an made a further investment of £4 million in the form of a convertible
associated undertaking using the equity method of accounting. loan note.
On 24 July 2023, ITC announced a proposed demerger of its In 2022, the Group announced a £32 million investment in exchange
‘Hotels Business’ under a scheme of arrangement by which 60% for 16% of Sanity Group GmbH (Sanity Group) which the Group
of the newly incorporated entity would be held directly by ITC's accounts for as an associate. In addition, during 2022, the Group
shareholders proportionate to their shareholding in ITC. In January made an investment in Steady State LLC (trading as Open Book
2025, ITC Hotels Limited was listed and commenced trading on the Extracts) for £4 million, followed by a second investment of
National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange £4 million in May 2023. The Group accounts for the investment
(BSE). The Group's direct stake in ITC Hotels Limited is 15%. as an associate. A further investment of £8 million was made in
(ii) Organigram Holdings Inc October 2023 by way of a convertible loan note, which is currently
accounted for as an investment at fair value through profit and loss.
On 11 March 2021, the Group announced a strategic collaboration
agreement with Organigram Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of In 2022, the Group announced that it had invested in Charlotte’s
publicly traded Organigram Holdings Inc. (collectively, Web, via a convertible debenture of £48 million. The debenture is
Organigram). Under the terms of the transaction, a Group convertible at the Group's discretion into a non-controlling equity
subsidiary acquired a 19.9% equity stake in Organigram Holdings stake in Charlotte’s Web of approximately 19.9%. The investment
Inc. to become the largest shareholder, with the ability to appoint is recognised at fair value through profit and loss with fair value
two directors and representation on its investment committee. changes in the investment recognised in net finance costs. On
The Group accounts for the investment as an associate. conversion of the loan note, the Group will equity account for
its investment.
As a result of certain acquisitions made by Organigram during
2021, the Group’s shareholding was reduced to 18.8%. In 2022, the (c) Non-controlling interests
Group exercised its top-up rights and invested a further £4 million During 2023, the Group acquired a further 1.31% in Hrvatski
to maintain its ownership stake. Duhani d.d., at a cost of less than £1 million, following the
acquisitions in 2022 (3.3% at a cost of £1 million).
336
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
(d) Assets held for sale and business disposals
(i) BAT Russia and BAT Belarus
On 11 March 2022, the Group announced the intention to transfer
its Russian business in full compliance with international and local
laws. At that time, the Group had two subsidiaries in Russia (BAT
Russia), being JSC British American Tobacco-SPb and JSC
International Tobacco Marketing Services. In September 2023,
the Group formally entered into an agreement to sell the Group's
Russian and Belarusian businesses to a consortium led by then
members of BAT Russia’s Management team, in compliance with
local and international laws. As previously announced, due to
operational dependencies between BAT Russia and the Group’s
subsidiary in Belarus (International Tobacco Marketing Services
BY) (BAT Belarus), the Belarusian business was included in the sale.
The transaction was completed on 13 September 2023 and, since
completion, the buyer consortium has wholly owned both
businesses. These businesses are now known as the ITMS Group.
In accordance with IFRS, the assets and liabilities of the
subsidiaries comprising BAT Russia and BAT Belarus were
classified as held-for-sale as of 31 December 2022 and presented
as such on the balance sheet at an estimated recoverable value.
Impairment charges of £554 million and associated costs of
£58 million were recognised in 2022 as adjusting items. Upon
completion, the businesses were deconsolidated from the Group's
balance sheet. Proceeds of £425 million were received in 2023,
resulting in a partial reversal of £195 million of the previously
recognised impairment. In addition to this, £554 million of foreign
exchange previously recognised in the statement of other
comprehensive income was reclassified to the income statement
upon completion of the transaction. This resulted in a net charge
to the income statement of £353 million which included disposal-
related costs of £3 million and £9 million of foreign exchange gains
on proceeds received. Management concluded that the disposal of
the Russian and Belarusian businesses did not qualify to be
presented as discontinued operations.
As part of the disposal agreements, the Group holds call options
to reacquire the ITMS Group entities. No value has been ascribed
to these options as they cannot be sold or transferred outside the
BAT Group, they expire within two years of the completion of the
transaction, and current sanctions and counter sanctions would
restrict the ability of the Group to exercise these options. In
addition, no value has been ascribed to the options the Group
holds to reacquire certain trademarks and brands utilised by the
ITMS businesses which only expire after 100 years. The likelihood
of exercise of these options within the foreseeable future is
remote, and assuming the higher returns that any market
participant would require given the perceived risk of investing in
Russia going forwards, and a consequent high discount rate, any
value associated with exercising the options would be immaterial.
337
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
28 Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share-based payment arrangements of which the three principal ones are:
Performance Share Plan (PSP):
Since 2020, performance-related conditional awards under which shares are released automatically following a three-year vesting period
(five-year period for the Executive Directors). Awards granted up to 2019 are nil-cost options exercisable after three years from date of
grant (five years for Executive Directors) with a contractual life of 10 years.
For awards granted in 2021, 2020 and 2019 vesting is subject to performance conditions measured over a three-year period (for all
awards), based on earnings per share (40% of grant), operating cash flow (20% of grant), total shareholder return (20% of grant) and net
turnover (20% of grant). Total shareholder return combines the share price and dividend performance of the Company by reference to
a comparator group.
For 2024, 2023 and 2022 awards, the performance conditions are based on earnings per share (30% of grant), operating cash flow (20%
of grant), total shareholder return (20% of grant), net turnover (15% of the grant) and New Categories revenue growth (15% of the grant).
Performance measurements are tested based on performance during the three-year period beginning on 1 January in the year of grant.
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to the vesting or exercise of the awards. A cash equivalent dividend accrues through the
vesting period (other than for the Executive Directors where additional shares are delivered in lieu of cash) and is paid on vesting. Both
equity and cash-settled PSP awards are granted in March and September each year.
In the U.S., PSP awards are made over BAT American Depository Shares (ADSs).
Restricted Share Plan (RSP):
Introduced in 2020, conditional awards under which shares are released up to three years from date of grant, subject to a continuous
employment condition during the vesting period. Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to shares vesting. A cash equivalent
dividend accrues through the vesting period and is paid on vesting. Both equity and cash settled RSP awards are granted in March
or September.
In the U.S., RSP awards are made over BAT American Depository Shares (ADSs).
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme (DSBS):
Granted in connection with annual bonuses, conditional awards under which shares are released three years from date of grant subject
to a continuous employment condition during the three-year vesting period. A cash equivalent dividend accrues through the vesting
period and is paid quarterly (other than for the Executive Directors where additional shares are delivered in lieu of cash). Both equity
and cash-settled DSBS awards are granted in March each year.
The Group also has a number of other arrangements which are not material for the Group which include:
Sharesave Scheme (SAYE)
The UK tax advantaged scheme where options are granted in March each year by invitation at a 20% discount to the market price.
Options under this equity-settled scheme are exercisable at the end of a three-year or five-year savings contract. Participants are not
entitled to dividends prior to the exercise of the options. The maximum amount that can be saved by a participant in this way is £6,000
in any tax year. All UK employees at the time of invitation are eligible to participate.
Share Reward Scheme (SRS)
The UK tax advantaged scheme where free shares are granted in April each year (up to an equivalent of £3,600 in any year) under the
equity-settled schemes and are subject to a three-year holding period. Participants receive dividends during the holding period which
are reinvested to buy further shares. The shares are held in a UK-based trust and are normally capable of transfer to participants tax-free
after a five-year holding period. All UK employees employed as at 1 December in the year prior to grant are eligible to participate.
International Share Reward Scheme (ISRS)
Conditional shares are granted in April each year (up to an equivalent of £3,600 in any year) subject to a three-year vesting period. Dividend
equivalents accrue through the vesting period and additional shares are delivered at vesting. Awards may be equity or cash-settled.
Partnership Share Scheme
The UK tax advantaged scheme where employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in British American
Tobacco p.l.c. (maximum £1,800 in any year). The shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust and are normally capable of transfer
to participants tax-free after a five-year holding period. All UK employees are eligible to participate.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of share-based payments were as follows:
2024 2023 2022
Equity- Cash- Equity- Cash- Equity- Cash-
settled settled settled settled settled settled
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
PSP & RSP 28(a) 34 2 27 2 38 1
DSBS 28(b) 30 2 38 1 36 3
Other schemes 6 — 6 — 7 —
Total recognised in the income statement 3 70 4 71 3 81 4
338
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Share-based payment liability
The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based payments that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of these
share-based payments to the employee at the date of exercise. The Group has recorded liabilities in respect of vested and unvested
grants at the end of 2024 and 2023:
2024 2023
Vested Unvested Vested Unvested
£m* £m £m* £m
PSP & RSP (0.9) 2.0 (0.4) 0.8
DSBS — 3.0 — 3.1
Total liability (0.9) 5.0 (0.4) 3.9
Note:
* The reduction in the liabilities for vested LTIPs was due to shares being exercised at prices lower than the share price at date of grant.
(a) PSP & RSP
Details of the movements for the equity- and cash-settled LTI schemes during the years ended 31 December 2024 and 31 December
2023, were as follows:
2024 2023
Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Number Number Number Number
of options of options of options of options
in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands
Outstanding at start of year 7,806 198 8,960 196
Granted during the period 5,128 135 3,379 94
Exercised during the period (1,765) (64) (2,401) (51)
Forfeited during the period (1,221) (55) (2,132) (41)
Outstanding at end of year 9,948 214 7,806 198
Exercisable at end of year 369 11 513 24
As at 31 December 2024, the Group has 9,948,000 shares (2023: 7,806,000 shares) outstanding which includes 1,804,531 shares
(2023: 1,527,898 shares) which are related to Reynolds American LTI awards from which nil shares (2023: nil shares) are exercisable
at the end of the year.
The weighted average British American Tobacco p.l.c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period
was £24.56 (2023: £27.65; 2022: £32.84) for equity-settled and £24.51 (2023: £25.85; 2022: £33.01) for cash-settled options.
The weighted average British American Tobacco p.l.c. share price for ADS on the New York Stock Exchange at the date of exercise for
share options exercised during the period relating to equity-settled Reynolds American LTIP awards was US$35.68 (2023: US$39.39;
2022: US$38.37).
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2024 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years
(2023: 1.5 years; 2022: 1.8 years) for the equity-settled scheme, 1.8 years for Reynolds American equity-settled scheme (2023: 1.8 years;
2022: 1.8 years) and 1.6 years (2023: 1.5 years; 2022: 1.7 years) for the cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
339
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
(b) Deferred Share Bonus Scheme
Details of the movements for the equity- and cash-settled DSBS scheme during the years ended 31 December 2024 and 31 December
2023, were as follows:
2024 2023
Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Number Number Number Number
of options of options of options of options
in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands
Outstanding at start of year 3,851 261 4,015 141
Granted during the period 1,053 48 1,675 211
Exercised during the period (1,287) (103) (1,743) (81)
Forfeited during the period (81) (21) (96) (10)
Outstanding at end of year 3,536 185 3,851 261
Exercisable at end of year — 1 — 1
The weighted average British American Tobacco p.l.c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the financial
year was £24.57 (2023: £27.39; 2022: £32.20) for equity-settled and £24.47 (2023: £25.56; 2022: £32.50) for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2024 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.2 years
(2023: 1.3 years; 2022: 1.3 years) for the equity-settled scheme and 1.2 years (2023: 1.3 years; 2022: 1.1 years) for the cash-settled scheme.
Valuation assumptions
Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes models to determine the fair value of share options at grant date were as follows:
2024 2023
PSP & RSP DSBS PSP & RSP DSBS
Expected volatility (%) 25.0 25.0 27.0 27.0
Average expected term to exercise (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
Risk-free rate (%) 4.0 4.0 3.5 3.5
Expected dividend yield (%) 9.8 9.8 7.7 7.7
Share price at date of grant (£) 23.84 23.84 29.71 29.71
Fair value at grant date (£)* 15.92 / 17.75 17.75 23.15/23.61 23.61
Fair value at grant date (£)* - Management Board 13.38 / 17.75 17.75 20.46/23.61 23.61
Note:
* Where two figures have been quoted for the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the numbers relate to PSP and RSP awards, respectively.
Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte-Carlo models for the total shareholder return elements of the PSP,
in determining fair value at grant date. Assumptions used in these models were as follows:
2024 2023
PSP PSP
Average share price volatility FMCG comparator group (%) 24 24
Average correlation FMCG comparator group (%) 30 29
Fair values determined from the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo models use assumptions revised at the end of each reporting period
for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
The expected British American Tobacco p.l.c. share price volatility was determined taking account of the return index (the share price
index plus the dividend reinvested) over a five-year period. The FMCG share price volatility and correlation was also determined over
the same periods. The average expected term to exercise used in the models has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate,
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural conditions, forfeiture and historical experience.
The risk-free rate has been determined from market yield curves for government gilts with outstanding terms equal to the average
expected term to exercise for each relevant grant. The expected dividend yield was determined by calculating the yield from the last two
declared dividends divided by the grant share price.
In addition to these valuation assumptions, LTI awards, excluding RSP, contain earnings per share performance conditions. As these are non-
market performance conditions they are not included in the determination of fair value of share options at the grant date, however, they are
used to estimate the number of awards expected to vest. This payout calculation is based on expectations published in analysts’ forecasts.
340
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
29 Group employees
The average number of persons employed by the Group and its associates during the year, including Directors, was 74,617 (2023: 75,452).
2024 2023
Number Number
U.S. 4,021 3,861
AME 31,090 32,948
APMEA 13,098 13,030
Subsidiary undertakings 48,209 49,839
Associates 26,408 25,613
74,617 75,452
Included within the employee numbers for AME are certain employees in the UK in respect of central functions. Some of the costs
of these employees are allocated or charged to the various regions and markets in the Group.
30 Related party disclosures
The Group has a number of transactions and relationships with related parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, all
of which are undertaken in the normal course of business. Transactions with CTBAT International Limited (a joint operation) are not
included in these disclosures as the results are immaterial to the Group.
Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not disclosed.
Transactions and balances with associates relate mainly to the sale and purchase of cigarettes and tobacco leaf and the provision of IT
services. Other investments in associates, in the form of convertible loan notes, are not included in the table below. The Group’s share
of dividends from associates, included in other income in the table below, was £447 million (2023: £559 million; 2022: £438 million).
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Transactions
– revenue 492 523 494
– purchases (179) (178) (190)
– other income 448 560 441
– other expenses (13) (6) (1)
Amounts receivable at 31 December 39 48 51
Amounts payable at 31 December (12) (4) (4)
The following related party transactions occurred in 2024, 2023 and 2022.
Transactions with associates
ITC
As explained in note 27(b)(i), on 13 March 2024, the Group announced the divestment of 12% of its equity stake in ITC Limited (the
equivalent of 3.5% of ITC's ordinary shares) to institutional investors by way of an accelerated bookbuild process which generated net
proceeds after transaction costs and taxes of INR166.9 billion (£1.6 billion). Following completion of the transaction, the Group has
remained a significant shareholder of ITC with a 25.45% investment and has continued to account for ITC as an associated undertaking
using the equity method of accounting.
Organigram
In 2023, the Group announced the signing of an agreement for a further investment of CAD$125 million (£74 million) in Organigram,
subject to customary conditions, including necessary approvals by the shareholders of Organigram, which was given on 18 January 2024.
On 24 January 2024, BAT made the first tranche investment of CAD$42 million (£24 million) acquiring a further 12,893,175 common shares
of Organigram at a price of CAD$3.22 per share. On 30 August 2024, BAT made the second tranche investment of CAD$42 million
(£24 million) acquiring a further 4,429,740 common shares and 8,463,435 preferred shares of Organigram at a price of CAD$3.22 per
share. Subject to certain conditions, the remaining 12,893,175 shares subscribed for shall be issued at the same price as the previous two
tranches by the end of February 2025. The additional investment in 2024 increased the Group's interest in Organigram to 35.09%. Under
the terms of the agreement, the Group’s voting rights are restricted to 30%.
The Group and Organigram also have a Product Development Collaboration Agreement following which a Centre of Excellence was
established to focus on developing the next generation of cannabis products with an initial focus on cannabidiol (CBD).
341
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Other associates
The following transactions occurred during 2024:
–On 11 September 2024, VST Industries Ltd (VST) allotted 154,419,200 equity shares of INR10 each as fully paid-up bonus equity shares.
The bonus equity shares were allotted in the proportion of 10 new fully paid-up equity shares for every one existing fully paid up equity
share. The Group's interest in VST remains unchanged at 32.16%.
The following transactions occurred during 2023, when the Group:
–acquired 19.9% of DeFloria for £8 million; and
–increased its ownership in Steady State LLC (trading as Open Book Extracts) from 5.76% to 10.8% for £4 million along with a further
investment of £8 million by way of a convertible loan note.
The following transactions occurred during 2022, when the Group:
–made a £32 million investment in exchange for 16% of Sanity Group GmbH;
–increased its ownership of a wholesale producer and distributor operating in the agriculture sector based in Uzbekistan, FE 'Samfruit'
JSC to 45.40% for £1 million;
–made a non-controlling investment in Steady State LLC for £4 million; and
–invested in Charlotte's Web via a convertible debenture of £48 million which is currently convertible into a non-controlling equity stake
of approximately 19.9% (as explained in note 27(b)(iii)).
Non-controlling interests
During 2023, the Group acquired a further 1.31% in Hrvatski Duhani d.d., at a cost of less than £1 million, following the acquisitions in 2022
(3.3% at a cost of £1 million).
Other related party transactions
As explained in note 15, in 2022 the Group provided a temporary liquidity facility to the main UK pension fund. The facility was undrawn
as at 31 December 2023 and on 28 March 2024 the facility was cancelled.
As a result of the implementation of the EU Single-Use Plastic Directive in certain EU countries, the Group, along with other tobacco
manufacturers, established Producer Responsibility Organisations for the management of the Extended Producer Responsibility
obligations relating to tobacco product butt filter waste collection. The costs incurred by the Group in relation to this waste disposal
is included in note 33.
The key management personnel of British American Tobacco consist of the members of the Board of Directors of British American
Tobacco p.l.c. and the members of the Management Board. No such person had any material interest during the year in a contract of
significance (other than a service contract) with the Company or any subsidiary company. The term key management personnel in this
context includes their close family members.
2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
The total compensation for key management personnel, including Directors, was:
– salaries and other short-term employee benefits 21 17 19
– post-employment benefits 1 1 1
– share-based payments 12 13 17
34 31 37
The following table, which is not part of IAS 24 disclosures, shows the aggregate emoluments of the Directors of the Company.
Executive Directors Chair Non-Executive Directors Total
2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Salary; fees; benefits;
incentives
– salary 1,907 1,644 2,129 1,907 1,644 2,129
– fees 711 688 670 1,112 1,059 1,027 1,823 1,747 1,697
– taxable benefits 617 395 449 17 17 59 79 31 78 713 443 586
– short-term incentives 3,496 1,650 3,761 3,496 1,650 3,761
– long-term incentives 1,474 1,371 7,888 1,474 1,371 7,888
– buy-out 2,969 — — 2,969 — —
Sub-total 10,463 5,060 14,227 728 705 729 1,191 1,090 1,105 12,382 6,855 16,061
Pension; other
emoluments
– pension 276 248 320 276 248 320
– other emoluments 6 2 6 6 2 6
Sub-total 282 250 326 282 250 326
Total emoluments 10,745 5,310 14,553 728 705 729 1,191 1,090 1,105 12,664 7,105 16,387
342
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
31 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments 8. It is the policy of the Group to defend tobacco-related
1. The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to litigation claims vigorously; generally, Group companies do not
requirements that it complies with relevant laws, regulations settle such claims. However, Group companies may enter into
and standards. settlement discussions in certain cases, if they believe it is in
their best interests to do so. Exceptions to this approach
2. Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations,
include, but are not limited to, actions taken pursuant to ‘offer
damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance,
of judgment’ statutes and Filter Cases, as defined below. An
interest charges, reputational damage or other sanctions.
‘offer of judgment,’ if rejected by the plaintiff, preserves the
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify. In cases
Group’s right to recover attorneys’ fees under certain statutes
where the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event
in the event of a verdict favourable to the Group. Such offers
existing at the balance sheet date, if it is probable that an
are sometimes made through court-ordered mediations.
outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the
Other settlements by Group companies include the State
obligation and if the amount of the obligation can be reliably
Settlement Agreements (as defined in paragraph 39 below),
estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best
the funding by various tobacco companies of a US$5.2 billion
estimates and management judgement.
(£4.2 billion) trust fund contemplated by the Master
3. There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of Settlement Agreement (as described in paragraph 39 below)
litigation, taxes in some countries and guarantees for which to benefit tobacco growers, the original Broin flight attendant
no provisions have been made. case (as described in paragraph 38, note 31(o) below), and
General Litigation Overview most of the Engle progeny cases pending in U.S. federal court
4. There are a number of legal and regulatory actions, (as described in paragraph 27 et seq. below), after the initial
proceedings and claims against Group companies related to docket of over 4,000 such cases was reduced to
tobacco and New Category products that are pending in a approximately 400 cases. The Group believes that the
number of jurisdictions. These proceedings include, among circumstances surrounding these claims are readily
other things, claims for personal injury (both individual claims distinguishable from the current categories of tobacco-
and class actions) and claims for economic loss arising from related litigation claims involving Group companies.
the treatment of smoking- and health-related diseases (such 9. Although the Group intends to defend all pending cases
as medical recoupment claims brought by local governments). vigorously and believes that the Group’s companies have valid
5. The plaintiffs in these cases seek recovery on a variety of legal bases for appeals of adverse verdicts, valid defences to all
theories, including negligence, strict liability in tort, design actions, and that an outflow of resources related to any
defect, failure to warn, fraud, misrepresentation, violations of individual case is not considered probable, litigation is subject
unfair and deceptive trade practices statutes, conspiracy, to many uncertainties, and generally, it is not possible to predict
public nuisance, medical monitoring and violations of the outcome of any particular litigation pending against Group
competition and antitrust laws. The plaintiffs seek various companies or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of
forms of relief, including compensatory and, where available, any possible loss. Furthermore, a number of political, legislative,
punitive damages, treble or multiple damages and statutory regulatory and other developments relating to the tobacco
damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and industry and cigarette smoking have received wide media
smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, attorneys’ attention. These developments may negatively affect the
fees, and injunctive and other equitable relief. outcomes of tobacco-related legal actions and encourage the
commencement of additional similar litigation. Therefore, the
6. Although alleged damages often are not determinable from a
Group does not provide estimates of the financial effect of the
complaint, and the law governing the pleading and calculation
contingent liabilities represented by such litigation, as such
of damages varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, compensatory
estimates are not practicable.
and punitive damages have been specifically pleaded in a number
of cases, sometimes in amounts ranging into the hundreds of 10. The following table lists the categories of the tobacco-related
millions and even hundreds of billions of sterling. actions pending against Group companies as at 31 December
2024 and the increase or decrease from the number of cases
7. The Group has successfully managed tobacco-related
pending against Group companies as at 31 December 2023.
litigation, and a very high percentage of the tobacco-related
Details of the quantum of past judgments awarded against
litigation claims brought against Group companies, including
Group companies, the majority of which are under appeal, are
Engle progeny cases, continue to be dismissed at or before
also identified along with any settlements reached during the
trial. Based on their experience in tobacco-related litigation
relevant period. Given the volume and more active nature of
and the strength of the defences available to them in such
the Engle progeny cases and the Filter Cases in the U.S.
litigation, the Group’s companies believe that their successful
described below, and the fluctuation in the number of such
defence of tobacco-related litigation in the past will continue
cases and amounts awarded from year to year, the Group
in the future.
presents judgment or settlement figures for these cases on
a three-year basis. Where no quantum is identified, either
no judgment has been awarded against a Group company,
or where a verdict has been reached no quantification of
damages has been given, or no settlement has been entered
into. Further details on the judgments, damages quantification
and settlements are included within the case narratives
below. For a discussion of the non-tobacco related litigation
pending against the Group, see note 31, paragraph 88, et seq.
343
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Case Numbers as at Case Numbers as at
31 December 2024 31 December 2023 Change in Number
Case Type Notes (note 31(a)) (note 31(a)) Increase/(decrease)
U.S. tobacco-related actions
Medical reimbursement cases 31(b) 2 2 No change
Class actions 31(c) 19 19 No change
Individual smoking and health cases 31(d) 197 202 (5)
Engle Progeny Cases 31(e) 91 305 (214)
Broin II Cases 31(f) 69 1,171 (1,102)
Filter Cases 31(g) 29 35 (6)
State Settlement Agreements – Enforcement and Validity 31(h) 5 4 1
Non-U.S. tobacco-related actions
Medical reimbursement cases 18 18 No change
Class actions 31(i) 12 12 No change
Individual smoking and health cases 31(j) 50 54 (4)
(Note 31(a)) This includes cases to which the Reynolds American Inc. (Reynolds American) group companies were a party at such date.
(Note 31(b)) This category of cases includes the Department of Justice action. See note 31, paragraphs 20 to 23.
(Note 31(c)) See note 31, paragraphs 24 to 36.
(Note 31(d)) See note 31, paragraphs 37 to 38.
(Note 31(e)) See note 31, paragraphs 27 to 36.
(Note 31(f)) See note 31, paragraph 38.
(Note 31(g)) See note 31, paragraph 38.
(Note 31(h)) See note 31, paragraphs 39 to 56.
(Note 31(i)) Outside the United States, there were 12 class actions being brought against Group companies as at 31 December 2024.
These include class actions in the following jurisdictions: Canada (11) and Venezuela (one). For a description of the Group companies’
non-U.S. class actions, see note 31, paragraphs 74 to 86. For a description of the Québec Class Actions, see note 31, paragraph 80.
All of the class actions in Canada are currently stayed pursuant to a court order. See note 31, paragraph 59.
(Note 31(j)) As at 31 December 2024, the jurisdictions with the most active individual cases against Group companies were, in descending
order: Chile (18), Brazil (12), Italy (six), Canada (five), Argentina (five) and Ireland (two). There were a further two jurisdictions with one
active case only. For further information, see note 31, paragraph 87.
11. Certain terms and phrases used in this note 31 may require some explanation.
a) ‘Judgment’ or ‘final judgment’ refers to the final decision of the court resolving the dispute and determining the rights and
obligations of the parties. At the trial court level, for example, a final judgment generally is entered by the court after a jury verdict
and after post-verdict motions have been decided. In most cases, the losing party can appeal a verdict only after a final judgment
has been entered by the trial court.
b) ‘Damages’ refers to the amount of money sought by a plaintiff in a complaint, or awarded to a party by a jury or, in some cases,
by a judge. ‘Compensatory damages’ are awarded to compensate the prevailing party for actual losses suffered, if liability is
proved. In cases in which there is a finding that a defendant has acted wilfully, maliciously or fraudulently, generally based on
a higher burden of proof than is required for a finding of liability for compensatory damages, a plaintiff also may be awarded
‘punitive damages’. Although damages may be awarded at the trial court stage, a losing party may be protected from paying
any damages until all appellate avenues have been exhausted by posting a supersedeas bond. The amount of such a bond is
governed by the law of the relevant jurisdiction and generally is set at the amount of damages plus some measure of statutory
interest, modified at the discretion of the appropriate court or subject to limits set by a court or statute.
c) ‘Settlement’ refers to certain types of cases in which cigarette manufacturers, including R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (RJRT),
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now known as Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc.) (B&W), and Lorillard Tobacco
Company (Lorillard Tobacco), have agreed to resolve disputes with certain plaintiffs without resolving the cases through trial
and/or appeal.
d) All sums set out in note 31 have been converted to GBP and US$ using the following end closing rates applicable for 31 December 2024,
which differ from the rates at the time any related provision was recorded on the balance sheet: GBP 1 to US$ 1.2524, GBP 1 to
CAD$ 1.8012, GBP 1 to EUR 1.2095, GBP 1 to BDT 149.6618 (Bangladeshi Thaka), GBP 1 to BRL 7.7371 (Brazilian Real), GBP 1 to
AOA 1,155.5237 (Angolan Kwanza), GBP 1 to ARS 1,291.2244 (Argentine Peso), GBP 1 to MZN 80.0346 (Mozambican Metical),
GBP 1 to NGN 1,933.7056 (Nigerian Naira), GBP 1 to KRW 1,843.7200 (South Korean Won), GBP 1 to JPY 196.8272 (Japanese Yen),
GBP 1 to SAR 4.7058 (Saudi Riyal), and GBP 1 to TRY 44.2855 (Turkish Lira). In addition, due to the adoption of the euro by the
Croatian State, the European Central Bank has set a conversion rate of EUR to HRK on 1 January 2023 as 1 EUR to HRK 7.5345
(Croatian Kuna).
344
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
U.S. Tobacco Litigation U.S. Department of Justice Action
12. Group companies, notably RJRT (individually and as successor 20. On 22 September 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)
by merger to Lorillard Tobacco) and B&W as well as other brought an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of
leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants in a number of Columbia against various industry members, including RJRT,
product liability cases. In a number of these cases, the amounts B&W, Lorillard Tobacco, B.A.T Industries p.l.c. (Industries) and
of compensatory and punitive damages sought are significant. British American Tobacco (Investments) Limited
13. The total number of U.S. tobacco product liability cases (Investments) (United States v. Philip Morris USA Inc.).
pending as at 31 December 2024 involving RJRT, B&W, Santa The DOJ initially sought (i) recovery of certain federal funds
Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. (SFNTC) and/or Lorillard expended in providing health care to smokers who developed
Tobacco was approximately 423. alleged smoking-related diseases and (ii) equitable relief under
the civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
14. Since many of these pending cases seek unspecified
Organizations Act (RICO), including (a) disgorgement of
damages, it is not possible to quantify the total amounts being
roughly US$280 billion (£223.6 billion) in profits allegedly
claimed, but the aggregate amounts involved in such litigation
earned from a purported racketeering ‘enterprise’ - a remedy
are significant, possibly totalling billions of US dollars. The
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit ruled in February
cases fall into four broad categories: medical reimbursement
2005 was not available - and (b) certain ‘corrective
cases; class actions; individual cases; and other claims.
communications’. In September 2000, the district court
15. RJRT (individually and as successor by merger to Lorillard dismissed Industries for lack of personal jurisdiction and
Tobacco), American Snuff Co.,SFNTC, R.J. Reynolds Vapor dismissed the health care cost recovery claims.
Company (RJR Vapor), Reynolds American, Lorillard Inc., other
21. After a roughly nine-month non-jury trial of the remaining
Reynolds American affiliates and indemnitees, including but
RICO claims, the district court issued its Final Judgment and
not limited to B&W (collectively, the Reynolds Defendants),
Remedial Order (the Remedial Order) on 17 August 2006.
believe that they have valid defences to the tobacco-related
That order found certain defendants, including RJRT, B&W,
litigation claims against them, as well as valid bases for appeal
Lorillard Tobacco and Investments, had violated RICO,
of adverse verdicts against them. The Reynolds Defendants
imposed financial penalties and enjoined the defendants from
have, through their counsel, filed pleadings and memoranda
committing future racketeering acts, participating in certain
in pending tobacco-related litigation that set forth and
trade organisations, making misrepresentations concerning
discuss a number of grounds and defences that they and their
smoking and health and youth marketing, and using certain
counsel believe have a valid basis in law and fact.
brand descriptors such as ‘low tar’, ‘light’, ‘ultra-light’, ‘mild’
16. Scheduled trials. Trial schedules are subject to change, and and ‘natural’. The Remedial Order also required the
many cases are dismissed before trial. In the U.S., as at defendants to issue ‘corrective communications’ on five
31 December 2024, there are 42 cases, exclusive of Engle subjects, including smoking and health and addiction, and
progeny cases, scheduled for trial through 31 December 2025, to comply with further undertakings, including maintaining
for the Reynolds Defendants: 31 individual smoking and health websites of historical corporate documents and
cases, eight Filter Cases and three other cases. There are also disseminating certain marketing information on a confidential
approximately 26 Engle progeny cases against RJRT basis to the government. In addition, the district court placed
(individually and as successor to Lorillard Tobacco) and B&W restrictions on the defendants’ ability to dispose of certain
scheduled for trial through 31 December 2025. It is not known assets for use in the United States, unless the transferee
how many of these cases will actually be tried. agrees to abide by the terms of the district court’s order.
17. Trial results. From 1 January 2022 through 31 December 2024, 22. The parties appealed and cross-appealed and, on 22 May
60 trials occurred in individual smoking and health, Engle 2009, the DC Circuit affirmed the district court’s RICO
progeny, and patent cases in which the Reynolds Defendants liability judgment but vacated the Remedial Order in part
were defendants, including 14 where mistrials were declared. and remanded for further factual findings and clarification
Verdicts in favour of the Reynolds Defendants and, in some as to whether liability should be imposed against B&W,
cases, other defendants, were returned in 17 cases, tried in based on changes in the nature of B&W’s business operations
Florida (nine), Oregon (one), Massachusetts (five), Illinois (one) (including the extent of B&W’s control over tobacco
and New Mexico (one). Verdicts in favour of the plaintiffs were operations). The DC Circuit also remanded three other
returned in 25 cases, tried in Florida (17), Massachusetts (four), discrete issues relating to the injunctive remedies, including
New Mexico (one), Oregon (two) and North Carolina (one). for the district court ‘to reformulate’ the injunction on the use
Two of the cases (in Florida) were dismissed during trial. Two of low-tar descriptors ‘to exempt foreign activities that have
of the cases (in Florida) were punitive damages re-trials that no substantial, direct, and foreseeable domestic effects,’
were retried twice (the first retrials resulted in plaintiff and for the district court to evaluate whether corrective
verdicts; the second retrials resulted in defense verdicts). communications could be required at point-of-sale displays
(a) Medical Reimbursement Cases (which requirement the DC Circuit vacated). On 28 June 2010,
18. These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by the U.S. Supreme Court denied the parties' petitions for
government entities and other third-party providers on further review.
healthcare and welfare costs claimed to result from illnesses
associated with smoking.
19. As at 31 December 2024, one U.S. medical reimbursement
suit (Crow Creek Sioux Tribe v. American Tobacco Co., filed in
1997) was pending against RJRT, B&W and Lorillard Tobacco
in a Native American tribal court in South Dakota. The
plaintiffs seek to recover actual and punitive damages,
restitution, funding of a clinical cessation programme,
funding of a corrective public education programme, and
disgorgement of unjust profits from sales to minors. There
has been no recent activity in this case, and no other medical
reimbursement suits are pending against these companies
by county or other political subdivisions of the states.
345
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
23. On 22 December 2010, the district court dismissed B&W The district court conducted a five-day hearing on the motion
from the litigation. Due to intervening changes in controlling for class certification and on the motion challenging the
law, on 28 March 2011, the district court ruled that the admissibility of expert opinion testimony in December 2020.
Remedial Order no longer applied to Investments On 1 September 2023, the district court entered an order
prospectively, and for this reason, Investments would not certifying a subset of the plaintiffs’ proposed classes covering
have to comply with any of the remaining injunctive remedies. purchasers of NAS menthol cigarettes in six states and
In November 2012, the district court entered an order setting declining to certify the other proposed classes. The defendants
forth the text of the corrective statements and directed the and plaintiffs both appealed from that order to the U.S. Court
parties to engage in discussions with the Special Master to of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Briefing is complete and oral
implement them. After various proceedings and appeals, the argument is expected in the first half of 2025.
district court in October 2017 ordered RJRT and the other U.S. Other Putative Class Actions
tobacco company defendants to fund the publication of
26. Young v. American Tobacco Co. is a putative class action filed
compelled public statements in various U.S. media outlets,
in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, Orleans Parish,
including in newspapers, on television, on the companies’
Louisiana against various U.S. cigarette manufacturers,
websites, and in onserts on cigarette packaging.
including RJRT, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and certain parent
The compelled public statements in newspapers and on
companies. This action was brought on behalf of a putative
television were completed in 2018 and in package onserts in
class of Louisiana residents who, though not themselves
mid-2020. The compelled public statements now also appear
cigarette smokers, have been exposed to second-hand smoke
on RJRT websites. The final issue regarding corrective
from cigarettes manufactured by the defendants, and who
statements was their display at retail point of sale. On
allegedly suffered injury as a result of that exposure. The
6 December 2022, the district court entered a consent order
action seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory and
requiring the tobacco company defendants to have the
punitive damages. In March 2016, the court entered an order
compelled public statements posted at retail point of sale.
staying the case, including all discovery, pending the
Installation of the statements began in July 2023, and the
completion of an ongoing smoking cessation programme
statements will remain in stores through June 2025.
ordered by the court in a now-concluded Louisiana state court
(b) Class Actions certified class action, Scott v. American Tobacco Co.
24. As at 31 December 2024, (1) RJRT, B&W and Lorillard Tobacco
Engle Class Action and Engle Progeny Cases (Florida)
were named as defendants in one action asserting claims
27. In July 1998, trial began in Engle v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,
on behalf of putative classes of persons allegedly injured or
a then-certified class action filed in Circuit Court, Miami-Dade
financially impacted by their smoking, and (2) as detailed in the
County, Florida, against U.S. cigarette manufacturers,
next paragraph, RJRT, and SFNTC (a subsidiary of Reynolds
including RJRT, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard Inc. The
American) were named in 17 putative class actions relating to
then-certified class consisted of Florida citizens and residents,
the use of the words ‘natural’, ‘100% additive-free’ or ‘organic’
and their survivors, who suffered from smoking-related
in Natural American Spirit (NAS) brand advertising and
diseases that first manifested between 5 May 1990, and
promotional materials. If the classes are or remain certified,
21 November 1996, and were caused by an addiction to
separate trials may be needed to assess individual plaintiffs’
cigarettes. In July 1999, the jury in this Phase I found against
damages. Among the pending class actions, 16 specified the
RJRT, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco, Lorillard Inc. and the other
amount of the claim in the complaint and alleged that the
defendants on common issues relating to the defendants’
plaintiffs were seeking in excess of US$5 million (£4.0 million)
conduct, general causation, the addictiveness of cigarettes,
and one alleged that the plaintiffs were seeking less than
and entitlement to punitive damages.
US$75,000 (£59,885) per class member plus unspecified
punitive damages. 28. In July 2000, the jury in Phase II awarded the class a total of
approximately US$145 billion (approximately £115.8 billion) in
No Additive/Natural/Organic Claim Cases
punitive damages, apportioned US$36.3 billion (£29.0 billion)
25. A total of 17 pending putative class actions were filed in nine U.S.
to RJRT, US$17.6 billion (£14.1 billion) to B&W, and
federal district courts against Reynolds American, RJRT and
US$16.3 billion (£13.0 billion) to Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard
SFNTC, which cases generally allege, in various combinations,
Inc. The three class representatives in the Engle class action
violations of state deceptive and unfair trade practice statutes
were awarded US$13 million (£10.4 million) in compensatory
and claim state common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation
damages.
and unjust enrichment based on the use of descriptors such as
29. This decision was appealed and ultimately resulted in the
‘natural’, ‘organic’ and ‘100% additive-free’ in the marketing,
Florida Supreme Court in December 2006 decertifying the
labelling, advertising and promotion of SFNTC’s NAS brand
class and allowing judgments entered for only two of the
cigarettes. In these actions, the plaintiffs allege that the use
three Engle class representatives to stand and setting aside
of these terms suggests that NAS brand cigarettes are less
the punitive damages award. The court preserved certain of
harmful than other cigarettes and, for that reason, violated state
the jury’s Phase I findings, including that cigarettes can cause
consumer protection statutes or amounted to fraud or a
certain diseases, nicotine is addictive, and defendants placed
negligent or intentional misrepresentation. The actions seek
defective cigarettes on the market, breached duties of care,
various categories of recovery, including economic damages,
concealed health-related information and conspired. Putative
injunctive relief (including medical monitoring and cessation
Engle class members were permitted to file individual
programmes), interest, restitution, disgorgement, treble and
lawsuits, deemed ‘Engle progeny cases’, against the Engle
punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs. In April 2016,
defendants, within one year of the Supreme Court’s decision
the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (JPML)
(subsequently extended to 11 January 2008).
consolidated the 16 cases pending at that time for pre-trial
purposes before a federal district court in New Mexico, and a
later-filed case was transferred there for pre-trial purposes in
2018. On 21 December 2017, that court granted the defendants’
motion to dismiss in part, dismissing a number of claims with
prejudice, and denied it in part.
346
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
30. During 2015, RJRT and Lorillard Tobacco, together with Philip Morris USA Inc. (PM USA), settled virtually all of the Engle progeny
cases then pending against them in federal district court. The total amount of the settlement was US$100 million (approximately
£79.8 million) divided as follows: RJRT US$42.5 million (£33.9 million); PM USA US$42.5 million (£33.9 million); and Lorillard Tobacco
US$15 million (£12.0 million). The settlement covered more than 400 federal Engle progeny cases but did not cover 12 federal progeny
cases previously tried to verdict and then pending on post-trial motions or appeal, and two federal progeny cases filed by different
lawyers from the ones who negotiated the settlement for the plaintiffs.
31. As at 31 December 2024, there were approximately 91 Engle progeny cases pending in which RJRT, B&W and/or Lorillard Tobacco
have all been named as defendants and served. These cases include claims by or on behalf of 125 plaintiffs. In addition, as at
31 December 2024, RJRT was aware of two additional Engle progeny cases that have been filed but not served. The number of
pending cases fluctuates for a variety of reasons, including voluntary and involuntary dismissals. Voluntary dismissals include
cases in which a plaintiff accepts an ‘offer of judgment’ from RJRT and/or RJRT’s affiliates and indemnitees. An offer of judgment,
if rejected by the plaintiff, preserves the offering party's right to seek attorneys’ fees under Florida law in the event of a favourable
verdict. Such offers are sometimes made through court-ordered mediations.
32. 32 trials occurred in Engle progeny cases in Florida state courts against RJRT, B&W and/or Lorillard Tobacco from 1 January 2022
through 31 December 2024, and additional state court trials are scheduled for 2025.
33. The following chart identifies the number of trials in Engle progeny cases as at 31 December 2024 and additional information about
the adverse judgments entered:
Trials/verdicts/judgments of individual Engle progeny cases from 1 January 2022 through 31 December 2024:
Total number of trials 32
Number of trials resulting in plaintiffs’ verdicts 16*
Total damages awarded in final judgments against RJRT US$102,900,000 (£82 million)
Amount of overall damages comprising ‘compensatory US$63,700,000 (of overall US$102,900,000 )
damages’ (approximately) (£51 million of £82 million)
US$39,200,000 (of overall US$102,900,000)
Amount of overall damages comprising ‘punitive damages’ (approximately) (£31 million of £82 million)
Note:
* Of the 16 trials resulting in plaintiffs’ verdicts 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2024 (note 31(k)):
Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT (note 31(l)) 10
Number of adverse judgments, in which RJRT still has time to file an appeal 0
Number of adverse judgments in which an appeal was not, and can no longer be, sought 6
(Note 31(k)) The 32 trials include one case that was tried twice (Miller v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.). The first trial resulted in mistrial, while
the second resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff. The 32 trials also include two cases with two punitive damages retrials, both within the
time period and both prior to the time period (Ledo v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Spurlock v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.).
(Note 31(l)) Of the 10 adverse verdicts appealed by RJRT as a result of judgments arising in the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2024:
a.5 appeals remain undecided in the District Courts of Appeal; and
b.5 judgments were affirmed and paid.
34. By statute, Florida applies a US$200 million (£159.7 million) bond cap to all Engle progeny cases in the aggregate. Individual bond
caps for any given Engle progeny case vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time. Judicial attempts by
several plaintiffs in the Engle progeny cases to challenge the bond cap as violating the Florida Constitution have failed. In addition,
bills have been introduced in sessions of the Florida legislature that would eliminate the Engle progeny bond cap, but those bills have
not been enacted as at 31 December 2024.
35. In 2024, RJRT paid judgments in four Engle progeny cases. Those payments totalled approximately US$4.7 million (approximately
£3.8 million) in compensatory or punitive damages. Additional costs were paid in respect of attorneys’ fees and statutory interest.
36. In addition, accruals for damages and statutory interest for two cases (Konzelman v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Blackwood v. R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co.), two pre-trial case resolutions and the remaining amounts of two resolution bundles were recorded in
Reynolds American’s consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2024 to the value of approximately US$25.0 million
(approximately £20.0 million).
347
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
(c) Individual Cases
37. As at 31 December 2024, 197 individual cases were pending in the United States against RJRT, B&W and/or Lorillard Tobacco.
This category of cases includes smoking and health cases alleging personal injuries caused by tobacco use or exposure brought
by or on behalf of individual plaintiffs based on theories of negligence, strict liability in tort, design defect, failure to warn, fraud,
misrepresentation, breach of express or implied warranty, violations of state deceptive trade practices or consumer protection
statutes, and conspiracy. The plaintiffs seek to recover compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees and costs, and punitive damages.
The category does not include the Engle progeny cases, Broin II cases, and Filter Cases discussed above and below. Three of the
individual cases are brought by or on behalf of an individual or his/her survivors alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to
Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS).
38. The following chart identifies the number of individual cases pending as at 31 December 2024 as against the number pending as at
31 December 2023, along with the number of Engle progeny cases, Broin II cases, and Filter Cases, which are discussed further below.
U.S. U.S. Change in
Case Numbers Case Numbers Number
31 December 31 December Increase /
Case Type 2024 2023 (Decrease)
Individual Smoking and Health Cases (note 31(m)) 197 202 (5)
Engle Progeny Cases (Number of Plaintiffs) (note 31(n)) 91 (125) 305 (380) (214) ((255))
Broin II Cases (note 31(o)) 69 1,171 (1,102)
Filter Cases (note 31(p)) 29 35 (6)
(Note 31(m)) Out of the 197 pending individual smoking and health cases, four have received adverse verdicts or judgments in
the court of first instance or on appeal, and the total amount of those verdicts or judgments is approximately US$140.5 million
(approximately £112.2 million), of which US$85 million (£67.9 million) is the result of the jury’s verdict in the Marvin Manious v. R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. case.
(Note 31(n)) The number of Engle progeny cases will fluctuate as cases are dismissed or if any of the dismissed cases are appealed.
Please see earlier table in paragraph 33.
(Note 31(o)) Broin v. Philip Morris, Inc. was a class action filed in Circuit Court in Miami-Dade County, Florida in 1991 and brought on
behalf of flight attendants alleged to have suffered from diseases or ailments caused by exposure to ETS in airplane cabins. In
October 1997, RJRT, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and other cigarette manufacturer defendants settled Broin, agreeing to pay a total of
US$300 million (£239.5 million) in three annual US$100 million (£79.8 million) instalments, allocated among the companies by market
share, to fund research on the early detection and cure of diseases associated with tobacco smoke. It also required those companies
to pay a total of US$49 million (£39.1 million) for the plaintiffs’ counsel’s fees and expenses. RJRT’s portion of these payments was
approximately US$86 million (approximately £68.7 million); B&W’s was approximately US$57 million (approximately £45.5 million);
and Lorillard Tobacco’s was approximately US$31 million (approximately £24.8 million). The settlement agreement, among other
things, limits the types of claims class members may bring and eliminates claims for punitive damages. The settlement agreement
also provides that, in individual cases by class members that are referred to as Broin II lawsuits, the defendants will bear the burden
of proof with respect to whether ETS can cause certain specifically enumerated diseases, referred to as ‘general causation’. With
respect to all other liability issues, including whether an individual plaintiff’s disease was caused by his or her exposure to ETS in
airplane cabins, referred to as ‘specific causation’, individual plaintiffs will bear the burden of proof. On 7 September 1999, the Florida
Supreme Court approved the settlement. There have been no Broin II trials since 2007. There have been periodic efforts to activate
cases and the Group expects this to continue over time. In 2024, RJRT resolved approximately half of the remaining Broin II cases.
RJRT sought and obtained dismissal of nearly all of the remaining cases due to inactivity on the files, leaving 69 cases pending as of
31 December 2024.
(Note 31(p)) Includes claims brought against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard Inc. by individuals who seek damages resulting from
their alleged exposure to asbestos fibres that were incorporated into filter material used in one brand of cigarettes manufactured
by a predecessor to Lorillard Tobacco for a limited period of time ending more than 60 years ago. Pursuant to a 1952 agreement
between P. Lorillard Company and H&V Specialties Co., Inc. (the manufacturer of the filter material), Lorillard Tobacco is required to
indemnify Hollingsworth & Vose for legal fees, expenses, judgments and resolutions in cases and claims alleging injury from finished
products sold by P. Lorillard Company that contained the filter material. As of 31 December 2024, Lorillard Tobacco and/or Lorillard
Inc. was a defendant in 29 Filter Cases. Since 1 January 2022, Lorillard Tobacco and RJRT have paid, or have reached agreement to
pay, a total of approximately US$19.4 million (approximately £15.5 million) in settlements to resolve 87 Filter Cases.
348
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
(d) State Settlement Agreements
39. In November 1998, the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, including RJRT, B&W and Lorillard Tobacco, entered into the Master
Settlement Agreement (MSA) with attorneys general representing 46 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and certain U.S. territories
and possessions. These cigarette manufacturers previously settled four other cases, brought on behalf of Mississippi, Florida, Texas
and Minnesota, by separate agreements with each state (collectively and with the MSA, the ‘State Settlement Agreements’).
40. These State Settlement Agreements settled all health care cost recovery actions brought by, or on behalf of, the settling jurisdictions;
released the defending major U.S. cigarette manufacturers from various additional present and potential future claims; imposed
future payment obligations in perpetuity on RJRT, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers; and placed
significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products. In accordance with the MSA,
various tobacco companies agreed to fund a US$5.2 billion (£4.2 billion) trust fund to be used to address the possible adverse
economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers.
41. RJRT and SFNTC are subject to the substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements. Payments under the
State Settlement Agreements are subject to various adjustments for, among other things, the volume of cigarettes sold, relative
market share, operating profit, net operating profit (NOP) and inflation. Reynolds American’s operating subsidiaries’ expenses and
payments under the State Settlement Agreements for 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024 and the projected expenses and payments for 2025
and onwards are set forth below (in millions of US dollars)*:
2026 and
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 thereafter
Settlement expenses $3,420 $2,951 $2,516 $2,160
Settlement cash payments $3,744 $3,129 $2,874 $2,535
Projected settlement expenses >$2,000 >$1,900
Projected settlement cash payments >$2,200 >$1,900
Note:
* Subject to adjustments for changes in sales volume, inflation, operating profit and other factors. Payments are allocated among the companies on the basis of relative market share or other methods.
42. The State Settlement Agreements have materially adversely affected RJRT’s shipment volumes. Reynolds American believes that
these settlement obligations may materially adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Reynolds
American and RJRT in future periods. The degree of the adverse impact will depend, among other things, on the rate of decline in U.S.
cigarette sales in the premium and value categories, RJRT’s share of the domestic premium and value cigarette categories, and the
effect of any resulting cost advantage of manufacturers not subject to the State Settlement Agreements.
43. In addition, the MSA includes an adjustment that potentially reduces the annual payment obligations of RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco
and the other signatories to the MSA, known as ‘Participating Manufacturers’ (PMs). Certain requirements, collectively referred to as
the ‘Adjustment Requirements’, must be satisfied before the Non-Participating Manufacturers (NPM) Adjustment for a given year is
available: (i) an Independent Auditor must determine that the PMs have experienced a market share loss, beyond a triggering
threshold, to those manufacturers that do not participate in the MSA (such non-participating manufacturers being referred to as
NPMs); and (ii) in a binding arbitration proceeding, a firm of independent economic consultants must find that the disadvantages of
the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the loss of market share. This finding is known as a significant factor determination.
44. When the Adjustment Requirements are satisfied, the MSA provides that the NPM Adjustment applies to reduce the annual payment
obligation of the PMs. However, an individual settling state may avoid its share of the NPM Adjustment if it had in place and diligently
enforced during the entirety of the relevant year a ‘Qualifying Statute’ that imposes escrow obligations on NPMs that are comparable
to what the NPMs would have owed if they had joined the MSA. In such event, the state’s share of the NPM Adjustment is reallocated
to other settling states, if any, that did not have in place and diligently enforce a Qualifying Statute.
45. RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and SFNTC are or were involved in the NPM Adjustment proceedings concerning the years 2003 to 2024.
In 2012, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, and SFNTC entered into an agreement (the Term Sheet) with certain settling states that resolved
accrued and future NPM adjustments. After an arbitration panel ruled in September 2013 that six states had not diligently enforced
their qualifying statutes in the year 2003, additional states joined the Term Sheet. RJRT executed the NPM Adjustment Settlement
Agreement on 25 September 2017 (which incorporated the Term Sheet). Since the NPM Adjustment Settlement Agreement was
executed, an additional 13 states have joined. In 2024, an additional state, Massachusetts, entered a separate settlement of the NPM
Adjustment dispute covering the years 2005-2011. The arbitration panels ruled in September 2021 that two states, Washington and
Missouri, had not diligently enforced their qualifying statutes in the year 2004. On 30 November 2021, Missouri moved to vacate the
2004 NPM Adjustment Arbitration Panel’s award finding in favour of RJRT. A hearing was held on 27 February 2024. On 30 September
2024, the Missouri Circuit Court denied Missouri’s motion to vacate the 2004 award and the PMs’ motion to vacate the Panel’s order
regarding reallocation. On 14 January 2025, the Missouri Circuit Court revised its 30 September 2024 order to denominate the order
a judgment and to confirm the 2004 Award. The State filed a notice of appeal on 21 January 2025. Briefing has not yet commenced.
In September 2022, a panel ruled that an additional state, New Mexico, had not diligently enforced its qualifying statute in the year
2004. On 30 August 2023, the New Mexico District Court vacated this decision. A notice of appeal was filed on 27 September 2023;
briefing is complete and oral argument was held on 28 January 2025. A ruling on the appeal has not yet been issued. In December
2023, a panel ruled that Washington had also not diligently enforced its qualifying statute in the years 2005, 2006 and 2007. On 28
March 2024, Washington filed a motion to vacate the arbitration panel’s award determining it was non-diligent in 2005, 2006, and
2007. RJRT filed its opposition brief on 10 May 2024. Washington filed its reply brief on 31 May 2024. A hearing was held on 26 July
2024 and the court issued an order denying Washington’s motion to vacate on the same date. On 23 August 2024, Washington filed
a notice of appeal from the order denying vacatur. On 9 September 2024, Washington requested direct review of its appeal by the
Washington Supreme Court. RJR Tobacco filed its opposition to Supreme Court review on 23 September 2024. On 6 November 2024,
the Supreme Court rejected Washington’s request for direct review and transferred the appeal to the Court of Appeals. Washington
filed its opening appeal brief on 30 January 2025. RJRT’s answer brief is due 3 March 2025. NPM proceedings are ongoing and could
result in further reductions of the companies’ MSA-related payments.
349
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
46. On 18 January 2017, the State of Florida filed a motion to join motions for judgment on the pleadings, the Delaware court
Imperial Tobacco Group, PLC (ITG) as a defendant and to ruled (i) that ITG’s obligation to use its reasonable best efforts
enforce the Florida State Settlement Agreement, which to join the Florida Settlement Agreement did not terminate
motion sought payment under the Florida State Settlement due to the closing of the asset purchase agreement relating
Agreement of approximately US$45 million (approximately to the Divestiture; (ii) that the asset purchase agreement does
£35.9 million) with respect to the four brands (Winston, not entitle ITG to a unique protection from an equity-fee law
Salem, Kool and Maverick) that were sold to ITG in the that does not yet exist in a previously settled State; and
divestiture of certain assets, on 12 June 2015, by subsidiaries (iii) that it would defer until after it received evidence related
or affiliates of Reynolds American and Lorillard, to a wholly to the parties' intent in the asset purchase agreement, its
owned subsidiary of Imperial Brands plc (the Divestiture), determination of whether, to the extent RJRT is held liable
referred to as the ‘Acquired Brands’. The motion also claimed for any settlement payments based on ITG's post-closing
future annual losses of approximately US$30 million per year sales of the Acquired Brands, ITG assumed this liability. After
(approximately £24.0 million) absent the court’s enforcement discovery was completed in March 2022, the parties briefed
of the Florida State Settlement Agreement. The State’s cross-motions for summary judgment on that third issue.
motion sought, among other things, an order declaring that On 30 September 2022, the court granted summary
RJRT and ITG are in breach of the Florida State Settlement judgment for Reynolds American and RJRT, holding that ITG
Agreement and are required, jointly and severally, to make assumed the liability that the Final Judgment imposed on
annual payments to the State under the Florida State RJRT for settlement payments to the State of Florida based
Settlement Agreement with respect to the Acquired Brands. on ITG's post-closing sales of the Acquired Brands. The parties
By order dated 30 March 2017, ITG was joined into the then engaged in a second round of summary judgment
enforcement action. In addition, on 18 January 2017, briefing on the amount of indemnifiable damages. On
PM USA filed a motion to enforce the Florida State 2 October 2023, the court partially granted summary
Settlement Agreement asserting, among other things, judgment for Reynolds American and RJRT, holding that they
that RJRT and ITG breached that agreement by failing to are entitled to indemnification of the principal amounts that
make settlement payments as to the Acquired Brands, RJRT paid to Florida and the interest it paid to Florida on those
which PM USA asserts improperly shifted settlement payments. The court deferred to trial the question whether
payment obligations to PM USA. ITG’s indemnification obligation should be reduced to account
47. After a bench trial, on 27 December 2017 the court entered for how NOP adjustment payments (NOP Adjustment) would
an order holding RJRT (not ITG) liable for annual settlement have been allocated if ITG had joined the Florida State
payments for the Acquired Brands, finding that ITG did not Settlement Agreement. Trial was held 8-9 July 2024, and the
assume liability for annual settlement payments related to court held a post-trial hearing on 6 November 2024. A
the Acquired Brands under the terms of the asset purchase decision is expected in the first half of 2025. ITG has agreed,
agreement relating to the Divestiture. The court declined subsequent to the Chancery Court’s decision on past
to enter final judgment until after resolution of the dispute payments, that it will indemnify every settlement payment
between RJRT and PM USA regarding PM USA's assertion that RJRT makes in the future to Florida based on ITG’s sales
that the settlement payment obligations have been of Acquired Brands cigarettes (subject to the issues
improperly shifted to PM USA. On 15 August 2018, the court addressed at trial and to its right to appeal).
entered a final judgment in the action (the Final Judgment). 49. In June 2015, ITG joined the Mississippi State Settlement
As a result of the Final Judgment, PM USA's challenge to Agreement. On 26 December 2018, PM USA filed a motion
RJRT's accounting assumptions related to the Acquired to enforce the settlement agreement against RJRT and ITG
Brands was rendered moot, subject to reinstatement if ITG alleging RJRT and ITG failed to act in good faith in calculating
joins the Florida State Settlement Agreement or if the Final the base year NOP for the Acquired Brands, claiming
Judgment is reversed. On 29 August 2018, RJRT filed a notice damages of approximately US$6 million (approximately
of appeal on the Final Judgment. On 7 September 2018, £4.8 million) through 2017. On 21 February 2019, the Chancery
PM USA filed a notice of appeal with respect to the court's Court of Jackson County, Mississippi held a scheduling
ruling as to ITG. These appeals were consolidated pursuant conference and issued a discovery schedule order. A hearing
to RJRT's motion on 1 October 2018. On 29 July 2020, Florida's on PM USA’s motion to enforce, originally scheduled for
Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the Final Judgment. 3-6 May 2021, was adjourned on consent of the parties to
On 12 August 2020, RJRT filed a motion for rehearing or for 11-12 August 2021. On 8 June 2021, PM USA and RJRT entered
certification to the Florida Supreme Court of the 29 July 2020 into a settlement agreement resolving the outstanding
decision. RJRT posted a total bond in the amount of payment calculation issues. On 11 June 2021, the Mississippi
US$187.8 million (£149.9 million) for its appeal. RJRT’s motion Chancery Court entered an order withdrawing PM USA’s
for rehearing or certification to the Florida Supreme Court motion to enforce. On 14 June 2021, RJRT made a payment of
was denied on 18 September 2020 and its motion for review US$5.1 million (£4.1 million) to PM USA. On 3 December 2019,
was denied by the Florida Supreme Court on 18 December the State of Mississippi filed a notice of violation and motion
2020. On 5 October 2020, RJRT satisfied the Final Judgment to enforce the settlement agreement in the Chancery Court of
(approximately US$193 million (approximately £154 million) Jackson County, Mississippi against RJRT, PM USA and ITG,
and paid approximately US$3.2 million (approximately seeking a declaration that the base year 1997 NOP to be used
£2.6 million) of Florida’s attorneys’ fees. RJRT's appellate in calculating the NOP Adjustment was not affected by the
bonds were released to RJRT by order dated 5 November change in the federal corporate tax rate in 2018 from 35% to
2020. As explained below, RJRT has secured an order in the 21%, and an order requiring RJRT to pay the approximately
Delaware action requiring ITG to indemnify it for amounts US$5 million (approximately £4.0 million) difference in its 2018
paid under the Final Judgment. payment because of this issue. Determination of this issue
48. On 17 February 2017, ITG filed an action in the Delaware Court may affect RJRT’s annual payment thereafter. A hearing on
of Chancery seeking declaratory relief against Reynolds Mississippi’s motion to enforce occurred on 6-7 October 2021.
American and RJRT on various matters related to its rights On 10 June 2022, the Mississippi Chancery Court granted the
and obligations under the asset purchase agreement (and State's motion to enforce, finding that the base year 1997 NOP
to be used in calculating the NOP Adjustment was not
related documents) relating to the Divestiture with respect
to the subject of the Florida enforcement litigation described affected by the change in the federal corporate tax rate in
above. Reynolds American and RJRT filed counterclaims on 2018. RJRT appealed the motion to enforce.
the same issues. As a result of multiple rounds of cross-
350
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
On 29 July 2022, the parties each submitted a supplemental On 10 February 2023, the PMs filed a motion to compel arbitration
briefing on damages, including interest and attorneys' fees. or, in the alternative, motion to dismiss New Mexico’s complaint
A hearing on damages, originally scheduled for 7 December and alternative motion to enforce. The State’s response to the
2022, took place on 14 March 2023. On 13 February 2024, PMs’ motion to compel was filed on 27 March 2023, and the PMs’
the Chancery Court awarded the State attorneys’ fees of reply was filed on 14 April 2023; a hearing was held on 30 October
approximately US$1.3 million (approximately £1 million). 2023. On 29 December 2023, the New Mexico District Court
On 7 May 2024, the court entered a Final Judgment awarding granted the PMs’ motion to compel arbitration. On 29 January
the State compensatory damages of approximately 2024, New Mexico filed a notice of appeal. Briefing is complete.
US$23.5 million (approximately £18.8 million) plus 8% On 29 March 2024, RJRT filed a motion to dismiss New Mexico’s
prejudgment interest, and approximately US$1 million appeal. On 28 August 2024, RJRT filed a motion to stay briefing
(approximately £798,467) in additional attorneys’ fees against on the appeal while its motion to dismiss the appeal is
RJRT. On 17 May 2024, the court entered an Amended Final pending. On 12 September 2024, New Mexico opposed RJRT’s
Judgment correcting a scrivener’s error. On 5 June 2024, RJRT motion to stay. The motion was denied on 24 September
filed a Notice of Appeal. On 6 June 2024, PM USA filed a 2024, with RJRT’s motion to dismiss held in abeyance pending
Notice of Appeal. On 19 June 2024, the State filed a Notice of submission of the appeal to a panel of judges.
Appeal from the amount of attorneys’ fees awarded and post- 54. On 21 February 2024, New Mexico provided the PMs with a
judgment interest on the prejudgment interest awarded. On 30-day notice of its intent to initiate proceedings to seek from
3 October 2024, following a settlement between PM USA the New Mexico District Court a declaratory judgment
and the State, the Mississippi Supreme Court dismissed PM interpreting the term “diligently enforce” as that term is to be
USA’s appeal and the State’s appeal as it relates to PM USA. applied to New Mexico. On 22 March 2024, New Mexico filed
RJRT continues to appeal the Final Judgment. a complaint with the New Mexico District Court seeking a
50. In January 2021, RJRT reached an agreement with several MSA declaratory judgment interpreting the term “diligently
states to waive RJRT’s claims under the MSA in connection with enforce.” RJRT filed a motion to compel arbitration and to
a settlement between those MSA states and a non-participating dismiss the complaint on 19 April 2024. New Mexico filed its
manufacturer, S&M Brands, Inc. (S&M Brands), under which the response brief on 21 May 2024, and RJRT filed its reply brief on
states released certain claims against S&M Brands in exchange for 10 June 2024. The New Mexico District Court set a hearing
receiving a portion of the funds S&M Brands had deposited into date of 23 September 2024. On 20 June 2024, New Mexico
escrow accounts in those states pursuant to the states’ escrow filed a motion for leave to file a sur-reply to RJRT’s motion to
statutes. In consideration for waiving claims, RJRT, together with compel arbitration and to dismiss the complaint. RJRT filed its
SFNTC, received approximately US$55.4 million (approximately opposition on 8 July 2024. New Mexico filed its reply on 26 July
£44.2 million) from the escrow funds paid to those MSA 2024. A hearing occurred on 23 September 2024, at which the
states under their settlement with S&M Brands. New Mexico District Court granted RJRT's motion to compel
51. On 27 May 2022, PM USA filed a motion to compel arbitration arbitration and dismissed the complaint from the bench. The
under the MSA against RJRT and ITG in North Carolina New Mexico District Court issued an order to that effect on
Superior Court claiming RJRT and ITG inaccurately calculated 13 November 2024. New Mexico filed a notice of appeal on
the base year NOP for the Acquired Brands and this 9 December 2024 and a docking statement on 8 January
improperly shifted approximately US$80 million 2025. Briefing has not yet commenced. On 23 February 2024,
(approximately £63.9 million) in MSA payment obligations PM USA sent New Mexico a 30-day notice of intent to initiate
from RJRT to PM USA, to date. On 7 June 2022, RJRT and a proceeding against New Mexico, giving notice that it intends
PM USA negotiated a resolution of the MSA claims, in which to bring an action in the New Mexico District Court seeking an
RJRT agreed to, among other things, pay PM USA the sum enforcement order compelling New Mexico to participate in a
of approximately US$37 million (approximately £29.5 million). proceeding before a firm to resolve a dispute over whether
New Mexico’s statutes requiring escrow deposits on certain
52. On 28 July 2022, the State of Iowa filed a motion to enforce the
Cigarettes sold in New Mexico constitute a Qualifying Statute
Consent Decree and MSA against the PMs asserting, among
as required by the MSA.
other things, claims for breach of contract and violations of the
Iowa False Claims Act. Iowa sought over US$130 million 55. On 2 March 2023, the State of Texas issued a demand letter
(£103.8 million) in damages, as well as treble damages. The PMs to RJRT, PM USA and ITG, pursuant to the Texas Tobacco
filed their resistance to Iowa’s motion and a motion to compel Settlement Agreement, for underpaid sums owed to Texas for
arbitration on 26 September 2022. Iowa filed its resistance to the years 2019 through 2022 and a change in the calculation going
PMs’ motion to compel arbitration on 6 October 2022, and the forward, asserting that RJRT, PM USA and ITG issued
PMs filed their reply on 31 October 2022. A hearing on the motion payments to Texas that were based on unauthorized changes
was held on 21 December 2022. On 9 February 2023, the Iowa to the base year 1997 NOP by incorporating into their
District Court granted the PMs' motion to compel arbitration, calculations the lower federal corporate tax rate enacted in
stayed the State’s motion to enforce pending the arbitration, and 2018. The State seeks damages in the amount of at least
ordered a status conference for 9 February 2024. On 7 March US$114 million (£91 million) cumulative for 2019 through 2022
2023, Iowa filed a withdrawal of its motion to enforce, mooting (the last year for which there was a calculation at the time of
the need for a status conference. the demand). In addition, in a letter to the independent
53. On 29 November 2022, the State of New Mexico filed a complaint, accounting firm retained by the parties to calculate settlement
or in the alternative, a motion to enforce the Consent Decree and payments due under the previously settled State Settlement
MSA against the PMs asserting, among other things, claims for Agreements, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC (PwC LLC) dated 3
breach of contract and violations of New Mexico’s Unfair March 2023, Texas requested that PwC LLC’s calculation of
Practices Act. New Mexico seeks compensatory damages in an the NOP Adjustment due to Texas for 2022 be based on the
amount to be determined at trial, as well as treble damages, value fixed in the Mississippi decision (discussed above) that
punitive damages, and declaratory and injunctive relief. The PMs’ found the base year 1997 net operating profit to be used in
deadline to answer or respond was 29 December 2022. On calculating the NOP Adjustment was not affected by the
15 December 2022, the PMs filed an opposed motion for an change in the federal corporate tax rate in 2018. On 13 March
extension of deadlines and pages to file their response on 2023, the parties entered into an agreement tolling the
10 February 2023. New Mexico filed its response to the motion on statute of limitations for the State to file a motion to enforce
20 December 2022 and the PMs filed their reply on 30 December on these issues until 15 May 2023.
2022. On 13 January 2023, the court granted the PMs’ motion to
extend their deadline to file their response to 10 February 2023.
351
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
On 24 March 2023, PwC LLC’s calculation of the net operating Canada
profit adjustment due to Texas for 2022 did not use the value 59. On 1 March 2019, the Québec Court of Appeal handed down
fixed in the Mississippi decision. On 8 May 2023, PM USA and a judgment which largely upheld and endorsed the lower
RJRT filed a motion to enforce the settlement agreement. court’s previous decision in two Québec class actions (the
On 22 May 2023, Texas filed its opposition and cross-motion Québec Class Actions), as further described below. The share
to enforce the settlement agreement. On 30 May 2023, of the judgment for Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited
PM USA and RJRT filed a combined opposition to the cross- (Imperial), the Group’s operating company in Canada, is
motion and reply in further support of the motion. On 6 June approximately CAD$9.2 billion (approximately £5.1 billion).
2023, Texas filed a reply in support of its cross motion to As a result of this judgment, there were attempts by the
enforce the settlement agreement. On 13 June 2023, PM USA Quebec plaintiffs to obtain payment out of the
and RJRT filed a sur-reply in response to the State’s reply in CAD$758 million (£420.8 million) on deposit with the court.
support of cross-motion to enforce the settlement JTI-MacDonald Corp ((JTIM) a subsidiary of Japan Tobacco
agreement. On 15 March 2024, the court granted the state’s International (JTI) and a co-defendant in the cases) filed for
cross-motion to enforce and denied the motion to enforce creditor protection under the Companies’ Creditors
filed by PM USA and RJRT. The court ordered that each party Arrangement Act (the CCAA) on 8 March 2019. A court order
shall have thirty (30) days to present a respective memorandum to stay all tobacco litigation in Canada against all defendants
on damages and interest. The parties filed their briefs on (including RJRT and its affiliate R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
damages and interest on 15 April 2024. The parties also filed International Inc. (collectively, the RJR Companies)) until
supplemental briefs. The Court held a hearing on 17 July 2024. 4 April 2019 was obtained, and the need for a mediation
process to resolve all the outstanding litigation across the
56. On 16 March, 2023, the State of Minnesota sent a letter to
country was recognised. On 12 March 2019 Imperial filed for
PwC LLC, joining in the positions taken by the States of Texas
creditor protection under the CCAA. In its application Imperial
and Florida that PwC LLC’s calculation of the NOP
asked the Ontario Superior Court to stay all pending or
Adjustment due Minnesota for the years 2018 and after be
contemplated litigation against Imperial, certain of its
based on the value fixed in the Mississippi decision that found
subsidiaries and all other Group companies that were
the base year 1997 NOP to be used in calculating the NOP
defendants in the Canadian tobacco litigation, including
Adjustment was not affected by the change in the federal
British American Tobacco p.l.c. (the Company), Investments,
corporate tax rate in 2018. On 24 March 2023, PwC LLC’s
Industries and Carreras Rothmans Limited (collectively, the
calculation of the NOP Adjustment due Minnesota for 2022
UK Companies). On 22 March 2019, Rothmans, Benson &
did not use the value fixed in the Mississippi decision. On
Hedges Inc. ((RBH) a subsidiary of Philip Morris International
2 July 2024, the State filed a motion to enforce the Settlement
Inc.) also filed for CCAA protection and obtained a stay of
Agreement. A hearing was held 26 September 2024. On
proceedings (together with the other two stays, the Stays).
9 December 2024, the Minnesota court granted the State of
The Stays are currently in place until 3 March 2025 or until
Minnesota’s Motion to Enforce the Settlement Agreement
such time as the Court’s decision on the Sanction Order is
and granted the parties 30 days (until 8 January 2025) to meet
released (see paragraph 62 below). While the Stays are in
and confer on the issue of damages, interest, and civil
place, no steps are to be taken in connection with the
penalties including attorneys’ fees. The Minnesota court also
Canadian tobacco litigation with respect to Imperial, certain
directed that within 30 days, PwC LLC shall calculate all future
of its subsidiaries or any other Group company.
Minnesota NOP Adjustments using US$3,115.1 million as the
Base Net Operating Profit. On 8 January 2025, the parties 60. On 17 October 2024, the court-appointed mediator and
informed the court that they have not resolved all remaining monitor filed a proposed plan of compromise and
issues and will need to brief them. On 16 January 2025, the arrangement for Imperial in the Ontario Superior Court of
court directed the parties to mediation of the remaining issues. Justice. Substantially similar proposed plans were also filed
for RBH and JTIM (collectively, the Proposed Plans).
Tobacco-Related Litigation Outside the U.S.
57. As at 31 December 2024: 61. Under the Proposed Plans, if they are ultimately sanctioned
and implemented, Imperial, RBH and JTIM (the Companies)
a) medical reimbursement actions are being brought
would pay an aggregate settlement amount of
in Angola, Brazil, Canada, Nigeria and South Korea;
CAD$32.5 billion (£18.0 billion) to settle all claims and litigation
b) class actions are being brought in Canada and relating to tobacco in Canada including, the Quebec Class
Venezuela; and Actions, the Provincial Actions (as described in paragraphs 65
c) active tobacco product liability claims against the Group’s to 66 below), outstanding Class Actions (as set out in more
companies existed in 12 markets outside the U.S. The only detail in paragraphs 74 to 84 below with the exception of the
markets with five or more claims were Argentina, Brazil, Danver Bauman action described in paragraph 85, which is
Canada, Chile, Nigeria and Italy. not tobacco-related) and individual actions. This amount
would be funded by:
(a) Medical reimbursement cases
Angola a) an upfront payment equal to all the Companies' cash and
cash equivalents on hand (including investments held at
58. In November 2016, BAT Angola affiliate Sociedade Unificada
fair value) plus certain court deposits (subject to an
de Tabacos de Angola (SUT) was served with a collective
aggregate industry withholding of CAD$750 million (£416
action filed in the Provincial Court of Luanda, 2nd Civil Section,
million)) plus 85% of any cash tax refunds that may be
by the consumer association Associação Angolana dos
received by the Companies on account of the upfront
Direitos do Consumidor (AADIC). The lawsuit seeks damages
payments; and
of AOA800 million (£692,327) allegedly incurred by the
Angolan Instituto Nacional do Controlo do Cancro (INCC) for b) annual payments based on a percentage (initially 85%,
the cost of treating tobacco-related disease, non-material reducing over time) of each of the Companies’ net income
damages allegedly suffered by certain individual smokers on after taxes, based on amounts generated from all sources,
the rolls of INCC, and the mandating of certain cigarette excluding New Categories, until the aggregate settlement
package warnings. SUT filed its answer to the claim on 5 amount is paid. The performance of Imperial’s New
December 2016. The case remains pending. Categories (including Vapour products and nicotine
pouches) is not included in the basis for calculating the
annual payments.
352
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
62. On 31 October 2024, the court hearing to rule on the Claims Canadian province: New Brunswick
Procedure Orders and Meeting Orders took place and these Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco
were granted. In accordance with the Meeting Order, a Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2006
creditors' meeting was held on 12 December 2024 and the
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK
Proposed Plans were approved by the requisite majorities of
Companies and the RJR Companies have been named as
the creditors. A Sanction Hearing took place between 29-31
defendants and served.
January 2025. During the Sanction Hearing, the Court was
asked to sanction the Proposed Plans. The Court’s decision is Current stage: The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies
currently pending and the Stays are extended until 3 March and the RJR Companies have been filed and document
2025, or until such time as the Court’s decision on the production and discoveries are substantially complete. The
Sanction Order is released. most recent expert report filed by the Province estimated a
range of damages between CAD$11.1 billion (£6.2 billion) and
63. If the Proposed Plans are sanctioned and implemented,
CAD$23.2 billion (£12.9 billion), including expected future costs.
Imperial will be required to pay into the settlement fund cash
Following a motion to set a trial date, the New Brunswick
and cash equivalents on hand (including investments held at
Court of Queen’s Bench ordered that the trial commence on 4
fair value) plus certain court deposits (subject to an aggregate
November 2019. On 7 March 2019, the New Brunswick Court
industry withholding of CAD$750 million (£416 million)). At
of Queen’s Bench released a decision which requires the
31 December 2024, a provision has been recognised in relation
Province to produce a substantial amount of additional
to this liability - see note 24. Subject to the sanction order, the
documentation and data to the defendants. As a result, the
cash is expected to be paid in 2025.
original trial date of 4 November 2019 would have been
64. If the Proposed Plans are sanctioned and implemented, delayed. No new trial date has been set.
Imperial and the other Companies will be required to make
Canadian province: Ontario
annual payments based on a percentage of net income after
tax based on amounts generated from all sources, excluding Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco
New Categories, until they settle the liability in full. At Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2009
31 December 2024, a provision has been recognised to reflect Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK
management's best estimate of Imperial’s total payments Companies and the RJR Companies have been named as
under the Proposed Plans - see note 24. defendants and served.
The below represents the state of the referenced litigation Current stage: The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies
as at the advent of the Stays. and the RJR Companies have been filed. The parties
65. Following the implementation of legislation enabling provincial completed significant document production in the summer
governments to recover health-care costs directly from of 2017 and discoveries commenced in the autumn of 2018.
tobacco manufacturers, 10 actions for recovery of health-care On 15 June 2018, the Province delivered an expert report
costs arising from the treatment of smoking- and health- quantifying its damages in the range of CAD$280 billion
related diseases have been brought. These proceedings (£155 billion) – CAD$630 billion (£350 billion) in 2016/2017
name various Group companies as defendants, including the dollars for the period 1954 – 2060, and the Province amended
UK Companies and Imperial as well as the RJR Companies the damages sought in its Statement of Claim to
(the Provincial Actions). Pursuant to the terms of the 1999 sale CAD$330 billion (£183.2 billion). On 31 January 2019, the
of RJRT’s international tobacco business to JTI, JTI has agreed Province delivered a further expert report claiming an
to indemnify RJRT for all liabilities and obligations (including additional amount between CAD$9.4 billion (£5.2 billion)
litigation costs) arising in respect of the Canadian recoupment and CAD$10.9 billion (£6.1 billion) in damages in respect of
actions. Subject to a reservation of rights, JTI has assumed the ETS. No trial date has been set.
defence of the RJR Companies in these actions. Canadian province: Newfoundland and Labrador
66. The 10 cases were proceeding in the provinces of British Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco Health
Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Care Costs Recovery Act 2001
Ontario, Québec, Manitoba, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Nova
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK
Scotia and Prince Edward Island. The enabling legislation is in
Companies and the RJR Companies have been named
force in all 10 provinces. In addition, legislation has received
as defendants and served.
Royal Assent in two of the three territories in Canada, but has
yet to be proclaimed into force. Current stage: This case is at an early case management
stage. The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and
Canadian province: British Columbia
the RJR Companies have been filed and the Province began
Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco its document production in March 2018. Damages have not
Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2000 been quantified by the Province. No trial date has been set.
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, Investments, Canadian province: Saskatchewan
Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited, the RJR Companies
Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco
and other former Rothmans Group companies have been
Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2007
named as defendants and served.
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK
Current stage: The defences of Imperial, Investments,
Companies and the RJR Companies have been named
Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited and the RJR
as defendants and served.
Companies have been filed, and document production and
discoveries were ongoing. On 13 February 2017, the Province Current stage: This case is at an early case management
delivered an expert report dated October 2016, quantifying stage. The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the
its damages in the amount of CAD$118 billion (£65.5 billion). RJR Companies have been filed and the Province has delivered
No trial date has been set. The federal government is seeking a test shipment of documents. Damages have not been
CAD$5 million (£2.8 million) jointly from all the defendants in quantified by the Province. No trial date has been set.
respect of costs pertaining to the third-party claim, now
dismissed.
353
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Canadian province: Manitoba Nigeria
Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco 67. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited (BAT Nigeria), the
Damages Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2006 Company and Investments have been named as defendants in
a medical reimbursement action by the federal government of
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK
Nigeria, filed on 6 November 2007 in the Federal High Court,
Companies and the RJR Companies have been named
and in similar actions filed by the Nigerian states of Kano
as defendants and served.
(9 May 2007), Oyo (30 May 2007), Lagos (13 March 2008),
Current stage: This case is at an early case management Ogun (26 February 2008), and Gombe (17 October 2008)
stage. The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the commenced in their respective High Courts. In the five cases
RJR Companies have been filed and document production that remain active, the plaintiffs seek a total of approximately
commenced. Damages have not been quantified by the NGN10.6 trillion (approximately £5.5 billion) in damages,
Province. No trial date has been set. including special, anticipatory and punitive damages,
Canadian province: Alberta restitution and disgorgement of profits, as well as
declaratory and injunctive relief.
Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Crown’s Right
of Recovery Act 2009 68. The suits claim that the state and federal government
plaintiffs incurred costs related to the treatment of smoking-
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK
related illnesses resulting from allegedly tortious conduct by
Companies and the RJR Companies have been named as
the defendants in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of
defendants and served.
tobacco products in Nigeria, and assert that the plaintiffs are
Current stage: This case is at an early case management entitled to reimbursement for such costs. The plaintiffs assert
stage. The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the causes of action for negligence, negligent design, fraud and
RJR Companies have been filed and the Province commenced deceit, fraudulent concealment, breach of express and implied
its document production. The Province has stated its claim to warranty, public nuisance, conspiracy, strict liability,
be worth CAD$10 billion (£5.6 billion). No trial date has been indemnity, restitution, unjust enrichment, voluntary
set. assumption of a special undertaking, and performance
Canadian province: Québec of another’s duty to the public.
Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco Related 69. The Company and Investments have made a number of
Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2009 challenges to the jurisdiction of the Nigerian courts. Such
challenges are still pending (on appeal) against the federal
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, Investments,
government and the states of Lagos, Kano, Gombe and Ogun.
Industries, the RJR Companies and Carreras Rothmans
The underlying cases are stayed or adjourned pending the
Limited have been named as defendants and served.
final outcome of these jurisdictional challenges. In the state of
Current stage: This case is at an early case management Oyo, on 13 November 2015, and 24 February 2017, respectively,
stage. The defences of Imperial, Investments, Industries, the Company’s and Investments’ jurisdictional challenges
Carreras Rothmans Limited and the RJR Companies have were successful in the Court of Appeal and the issuance
been filed. Motions over admissibility of documents and of the writ of summons was set aside.
damages discovery have been filed but not heard. The
South Korea
Province is seeking CAD$60 billion (£33.3 billion). No trial date
70. In April 2014, Korea’s National Health Insurance Service (NHIS)
has been set.
filed a healthcare recoupment action against KT&G (a Korean
Canadian province: Prince Edward Island tobacco company), PM Korea and BAT Korea (including BAT
Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco Korea Manufacturing). The NHIS is seeking damages of
Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2009 roughly KRW54 billion (approximately £29.3 million) in respect
of health care costs allegedly incurred by the NHIS treating
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK
patients with lung (small cell and squamous cell) and laryngeal
Companies and the RJR Companies have been named as
(squamous cell) cancer between 2003 and 2012. Court
defendants and served.
hearings in the case, which constitute the trial, commenced
Current stage: This case is at an early case management
in September 2014. On 20 November 2020, the court issued
stage. The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the
a judgment in favour of the defendants and dismissing all of
RJR Companies have been filed and the next step was
the plaintiff’s claims. The NHIS filed an appeal of the judgment
expected to be document production, which the parties
on 11 December 2020. Appellate proceedings commenced
deferred for the time being. Damages have not been
in June 2021 and remain ongoing.
quantified by the Province. No trial date has been set.
Brazil
Canadian province: Nova Scotia
71. On 21 May 2019, the Federal Attorney’s Office (AGU) in Brazil
Act pursuant to which Claim was brought: Tobacco Health filed an action in the Federal Court of Rio Grande do Sul
Care Costs Recovery Act 2005 against the Company, the BAT Group’s Brazilian subsidiary
Companies named as Defendants: Imperial, the UK Souza Cruz LTDA (Souza Cruz), Philip Morris International,
Companies and the RJR Companies have been named as Philip Morris Brazil Indústria e Comércio LTDA and Philip
defendants and served. Morris Brasil S/A (collectively, PMB), asserting claims for
medical reimbursement for funds allegedly expended by the
Current stage: This case is at an early case management
federal government as public health care expenses to treat
stage. The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the
26 tobacco-related diseases over the last five years from
RJR Companies have been filed. The Province provided a test
the filing date and that will be expended in perpetuity during
document production in March 2018. Damages have not been
future years, including diseases allegedly caused both by
quantified by the Province. No trial date has been set.
cigarette smoking and exposure to ETS. The action includes
a claim for moral damages allegedly suffered by Brazilian
society to be paid into a public welfare fund. The action is
for an unspecified amount of monetary compensation, as
the AGU seeks a bifurcated action in which liability would be
determined in the first phase followed by an evidentiary phase
to ascertain damages.
354
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
72. On 19 July 2019, the trial court ordered that service of the 77. Knight Class Action: the Supreme Court of British Columbia
action on the Company be effected via service on Souza Cruz. certified a class of all consumers who purchased Imperial
On 6 August 2019, Souza Cruz refused to receive service cigarettes in British Columbia bearing ‘light’ or ‘mild’
on behalf of the Company due to Souza Cruz’s lack of power descriptors since 1974. The plaintiff is seeking compensation
to do so. On 7 August 2019, Souza Cruz was served with the for amounts spent on ‘light and mild’ products and a
complaint. Following further proceedings in 2019 and 2020 disgorgement of profits from Imperial on the basis that the
in both the trial and appellate courts challenging the issue of marketing of light and mild cigarettes was deceptive because
service on the Company, the court ruled that service of the it conveyed a false and misleading message that those
Company via its Brazilian subsidiary Souza Cruz constituted cigarettes are less harmful than regular cigarettes.
proper service, and ordered that defences be filed. Souza Cruz 78. On appeal, the appellate court confirmed the certification of
and the Company filed their respective defences on 12 May 2020. the class, but limited any financial liability, if proven, to 1997
73. On 19 February 2021, the Associação de Controle do onward. Imperial’s third-party claim against the federal
Tabagismo, Promoção da Saúde (ACT) filed a petition seeking government was dismissed by the Supreme Court of Canada.
to intervene in the case as amicus curiae. Souza Cruz, PMB and The federal government is seeking a cost order of
the Company filed responses (on 25 March 2021, 26 March CAD$5 million (£2.8 million) from Imperial relating to its now
2021 and 20 August 2021, respectively) asserting that ACT's dismissed third-party claim. After being dormant for several
request should be rejected and/or in the alternative that the years, the plaintiff delivered a Notice of Intention to Proceed,
scope of ACT's intervention rights should be limited. On 13 May and Imperial delivered an application to dismiss the action for
2022, the trial court ordered the AGU to reply to the defences delay. The application was heard on 23 June 2017 and was
within 30 business days, and also permitted the ACT to dismissed on 23 August 2017. Notice to class members of
intervene, limiting ACT's rights as amicus curiae to presenting certification was provided on 14 February 2018. As at the date
technical and scientific opinions and participating in court of the Stays, the next steps were expected to include
hearings. The AGU submitted its reply on 5 July 2022. Souza discovery-related ones.
Cruz, PMB and the Company submitted responses to the 79. Growers’ Class Action: in December 2009, Imperial was
AGU's reply on 26 August 2022. On 19 May 2020, notice was served with a proposed class action filed by Ontario tobacco
sent to the Public Prosecutor’s Office (MPF) regarding the farmers and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers’
AGU’s request that the MPF join the action as a plaintiff. Marketing Board. The plaintiffs allege that Imperial and the
The MPF, via its response filed on 10 July 2020, declined to join Canadian subsidiaries of PMI and JTI failed to pay the agreed
the action as party, but will act as an ‘inspector of the law’, domestic contract price to the growers used in products
which enables MPF to express its opinion on case matters. manufactured for the export market and which were
On 10 October 2022, the MPF submitted an opinion on ultimately smuggled back into Canada. JTI has sought
preliminary issues and evidence, which called for rejection of indemnification pursuant to the JTI Indemnities (discussed
the defendants’ preliminary defences and the majority of the below at paragraphs 136 to 137). The plaintiffs seek damages
evidence requested by AGU and defendants. Defendants Philip in the amount of CAD$50 million (£27.8 million). Various
Morris International (PMI), PMB, the Company and Souza Cruz preliminary challenges have been heard, the last being a
filed responses to the MPF’s opinion on 14 November 2022, motion for summary judgment on a limitation period. The
18 November 2022, 2 March 2023 and 3 March 2023, motion was dismissed and ultimately, leave to appeal to the
respectively. On 6 December 2023, the Fundação Oswaldo Ontario Court of Appeal was dismissed in November 2016.
Cruz (FIOCRUZ), a research and development arm of the In December 2017, the plaintiffs proposed that the action
Brazilian Ministry of Health, filed a petition seeking to intervene proceed by way of individual actions as opposed to a class
in the case as amicus curiae. PMB and Souza Cruz filed action. The defendants did not consent. As at the date of the
responses on 8 January 2024 and 24 January 2024, respectively, Stays, the claim was in abeyance pending further action from
asserting that the FIOCRUZ petition should be rejected or in the plaintiffs.
the alternative that any intervention rights should be limited.
80. Québec Class Actions: there are currently two smoking
(b) Class Actions and health class actions in Québec, certified by the Québec
Canada Superior Court on 21 February 2005 against Imperial and
74. As described in paragraph 59, the Canadian tobacco litigation is two other domestic manufacturers. Judgment was rendered
currently stayed subject to court-ordered stays of proceeding against the defendants on 27 May 2015. Pursuant to the
(the Stays). The Stays are currently in place until 3 March 2025 judgment, the plaintiffs were awarded damages and interest
or until such time as the Court decision on the Sanction Order is against Imperial and the Canadian subsidiaries of PMI and JTI
released (see paragraph 62 above). While the Stays are in place, in the amount of CAD$15.6 billion (£8.7 billion), most of which
no steps are to be taken in connection with the Canadian was on a joint and several basis, of which Imperial’s share was
tobacco litigation with respect to Imperial, certain of its CAD$10.4 billion (£5.8 billion). An appeal of the judgment was
subsidiaries or any other Group company. As described filed on 26 June 2015. The court also awarded provisional
in paragraphs 60 to 64, the Proposed Plans have received execution pending appeal of CAD$1,131 million (£628 million),
creditor approval and a sanction hearing to approve the of which Imperial’s share was approximately CAD$742 million
Proposed Plans took place between 29-31 January 2025. (£412 million). This order was subsequently overturned by the
During the Sanction Hearing, the Court was asked to approve Court of Appeal. Following the cancellation of the order for
the Proposed Plans in view of its implementation. The Court’s provisional execution, the plaintiffs filed a motion against
decision is currently pending. Under the Proposed Plans, Imperial and one other manufacturer seeking security in the
if they are ultimately sanctioned and implemented, the amount of CAD$5 billion (£2.8 billion) to guarantee, in whole or
Companies (including Imperial) would be required to pay in part, the payment of costs of the appeal and the judgment.
an aggregate settlement amount of CAD$32.5 billion On 27 October 2015, the Court of Appeal ordered the parties
(£18 billion) to settle all claims and litigation relating to to post security for the judgment in the amount of
tobacco in Canada including, the outstanding Class Actions CAD$984 million (£546 million), of which Imperial’s share was
listed below (with the exception of the Danver Bauman action CAD$758 million (£421 million) which amounts have been paid
described in paragraph 85, which is not tobacco-related). into court. Imperial's share was later recalculated by the Court
75. The below represents the state of the referenced litigation of Appeal as CAD$759 million (£421 million).
as at the advent of the Stays.
On 1 March 2019, the trial judgment was upheld by a
76. There are 11 class actions being brought in Canada against unanimous decision of the five-member panel of the Court
Group companies.
355
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
of Appeal, with one exception being an amendment to the Venezuela
original interest calculation applied to certain portions of the 86. In April 2008, the Venezuelan Federation of Associations
judgment. The interest adjustment has resulted in the of Users and Consumers (FEVACU) and Wolfang Cardozo
reduction of the total maximum award in the two cases to Espinel and Giorgio Di Muro Di Nunno, acting as individuals,
CAD$13.7 billion (£7.6 billion) as at 1 March 2019, with filed a class action against the Venezuelan government.
Imperial’s share being reduced to approximately The class action seeks regulatory controls on tobacco and
CAD$9.2 billion (approximately £5.1 billion). recovery of medical expenses for future expenses of treating
81. Other Canadian Smoking and Health Class Actions: seven smoking-related illnesses in Venezuela. Both C.A Cigarrera
putative class actions, described below, have been filed against Bigott Sucs. (Cigarrera Bigott), a Group subsidiary, and
various Canadian and non-Canadian tobacco-related entities, ASUELECTRIC, represented by its president Giorgio Di Muro
including the UK Companies, Imperial and the RJR Companies, Di Nunno (who had previously filed as an individual), have been
in various Canadian provinces. In these cases, none of which admitted as third parties by the Constitutional Chamber of
have quantified their asserted damages, the plaintiffs allege the Supreme Court of Justice. A hearing date for the action is
claims based on fraud, fraudulent concealment, breach of yet to be scheduled. On 25 April 2017 and on 23 January 2018,
warranty of merchantability, and of fitness for a particular Cigarrera Bigott requested the court to declare the lapsing of
purpose, failure to warn, design defects, negligence, breach the class action due to no proceedings taking place in the case
of a ‘special duty’ to children and adolescents, conspiracy, in over a year. A ruling on the matter is yet to be issued.
concert of action, unjust enrichment, market share liability and (c) Individual Tobacco-Related Personal Injury Claims
violations of various trade practices and competition statutes. 87. As at 31 December 2024, the jurisdictions with the most
Pursuant to the terms of the 1999 sale of RJRT’s international active individual cases against Group companies were, in
tobacco business, and subject to a reservation of rights, JTI has descending order: Chile (18), Brazil (12), Italy (six), Canada (five),
assumed the defence of the RJR Companies in these seven Argentina (five) and Ireland (two). There were a further two
actions (Semple, Kunka, Adams, Dorion, Bourassa, McDermid jurisdictions with one active case only. Out of these 50 active
and Jacklin, discussed below). individual cases, as at 31 December 2024 there were two
82. In June 2009, four smoking and health class actions were filed cases in Argentina that have resulted in pending unfavourable
in Nova Scotia (Semple), Manitoba (Kunka), Saskatchewan judgments. In one case, damages were awarded totalling
(Adams) and Alberta (Dorion) against various Canadian and ARS685,976 (£531) in compensatory damages and
non-Canadian tobacco-related entities, including the ARS2,500,000 (£1,936) in punitive damages, plus post-
UK Companies, Imperial and the RJR Companies. In judgment interest. This judgment was reversed via an
Saskatchewan, the Company, Carreras Rothmans Limited appellate court ruling issued 19 September 2023. The
and Ryesekks p.l.c. have been released from Adams, and plaintiff’s petition for leave to appeal to the Argentina
the RJR Companies have brought a motion challenging the Supreme Court was denied on 29 November 2023. The
jurisdiction of the court. There are service issues in relation plaintiff filed an extraordinary appeal to the Argentina
to Imperial and the UK Companies in Alberta and in relation Supreme Court on 7 December 2023, which appeal remains
to the UK Companies in Manitoba. The plaintiffs did not serve pending. In the other case, compensatory damages were
their certification motion materials and no dates for awarded totalling ARS2,850,000 (£2,207), with post-judgment
certification motions were set. interest totalling approximately ARS285,842,620 (£221,373).
This judgment is currently on appeal. In addition, on 25 August
83. In June 2010, two further smoking and health class actions
2023, an adverse written judgment was served in an individual
were filed in British Columbia (Bourassa and McDermid) against
action in Türkiye awarding TRY10,000 (£226) in compensatory
various Canadian and non-Canadian tobacco-related entities,
damages against British American Tobacco Tütün Mam. San.
including Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies.
ve Tic. A.Ş (BAT Türkiye) and Philip Morris Sabancı Pazarlama
The UK Companies, Imperial, the RJR Companies and other
ve Satış A.Ş, now known as Philip Morris Pazarlama ve Satış
defendants objected to jurisdiction. Subsequently, the
A.Ş (PMP). The judgment was reversed against BAT Türkiye
Company, Carreras Rothmans Limited and Ryesekks p.l.c. were
via an appellate court ruling served on 7 January 2025, on the
released from the actions. Imperial, Industries, Investments and
basis that BAT Türkiye does not have standing to be sued. The
the RJR Companies remain as defendants in both actions. The
judgment was upheld against PMP, with the amount of the
plaintiffs did not serve their certification motion materials and
award increased to TRY500,000 (£11,290). PMP has appealed
no dates for certification motions were set.
the judgment against it, and the plaintiff has appealed both
84. In June 2012, a smoking and health class action was filed in rulings. The appeals remain pending.
Ontario (Jacklin) against various Canadian and non-Canadian
Croatian Distributor Dispute
tobacco-related entities, including the UK Companies, Imperial
88. BAT Hrvatska d.o.o u likvidaciji and British American Tobacco
and the RJR Companies. The claim has been in abeyance.
Investments (Central and Eastern Europe) Limited are named
85. A proposed national class action was filed in the British Columbia as defendants in a claim by Mr Perica received on 22 August
Supreme Court by Danver Bauman (via his litigation guardian) 2017 and brought before the commercial court of Zagreb,
on 21 December 2023 against Imperial Tobacco Company Croatia. Mr Perica seeks damages of HRK408 million
Ltd., Imperial, and Nicoventures Trading Limited (€54 million / £45 million) relating to a BAT Standard
(Nicoventures) alleging numerous statutory and common law Distribution Agreement dating from 2005. BAT Hrvatska d.o.o
causes of action in connection with the design, marketing and and British American Tobacco Investments (Central and
sale of Zonnic. The action was issued in violation of the Stays, Eastern Europe) Ltd filed a reply to the statement of claim on
is subject to the Stays, and has not been served. 6 October 2017. A hearing had been scheduled to take place
on 10 May 2018, but it was postponed due to a change of the
judge hearing the case. The Commercial Court in Zagreb
declared they do not have jurisdiction and that the competent
court to hear this case is the Municipal Court in Zagreb. TDR
d.o.o. is also named as the defendant in a claim by Mr Perica
received on 30 April 2018 and brought before the commercial
court of Zagreb, Croatia. Mr. Perica seeks payment in the
amount of HRK408 million (€54 million / £45 million) claiming
that BAT Hrvatska d.o.o. transferred a business unit to TDR
d.o.o, thus giving rise to a liability of TDR d.o.o. for the debts
356
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
incurred by BAT Hrvatska d.o.o, on the basis of the provisions 92. On 11 February 2022, Nicoventures commenced an action in
of Croatian civil obligations law. A response to the statement the England and Wales High Court (Patents Court) against Philip
of claim was filed on 30 May 2018. The Commercial Court in Morris Products S.A. (PMP) for revocation against one of PMP’s
Zagreb declared they do not have jurisdiction and that the patents (a further divisional patent in the same family was added
competent court to hear this case is the Municipal Court in into the revocation action on 27 May 2022). On 22 August 2022,
Pula. Mr Perica filed an appeal against this decision which was PMP counterclaimed for patent infringement against
rejected by the High Commercial Court of The Republic of Nicoventures and Investments concerning certain ‘glo’ tobacco
Croatia confirming therewith that the competent court to heating devices that comprise two inductive heating coils and
hear this case is the Municipal Court in Pula. The Municipal their corresponding consumables. PMP later abandoned its
Court in Zagreb decided that the claims by Mr Perica initiated counterclaim in respect of one of the patents but maintained its
on 22 August 2017 and 30 April 2018 shall be heard as one counterclaim in respect of the other. PMP sought an injunction
case in front of the Municipal Court of Zagreb. After the two and damages (plus interest thereon). The trial was heard in
hearings were held, the Municipal Court of Zagreb appointed March 2023. On 18 April 2023 the England and Wales High Court
the court financial and auditing appraisal to determine the (Patents Court) handed down its judgment finding that the PMP
value of Mr Perica’s claim, which it determined in the amount patents were valid but one of them is not infringed
of €15,850,579 (£13 million). BAT Hrvatska d.o.o, British (the counterclaim in respect of the other patent having been
American Tobacco Investments (Central and Eastern Europe) abandoned). Thus, PMP's counterclaim for patent
Ltd and TDR d.o.o, are able to challenge this valuation as part infringement against Nicoventures and Investments failed.
of the legal proceedings. Pursuant to the PMI Settlement, these proceedings were
Florence Proceedings dismissed on 5 February 2024.
89. British American Tobacco Italia SpA has been charged with 93. On 28 May 2020, Altria Client Services LLC (Altria) and U.S.
administrative offences in Florence, Italy in a case against a Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC commenced proceedings
large number of individual and corporate defendants. This against RJR Vapor before the U.S. District Court for the Middle
relates to potential allegations of failure to supervise or take District of North Carolina against the vapour products Vuse Vibe
appropriate steps to prevent alleged corruption by two (now and Vuse Alto, and the tin used in the Modern Oral product Velo.
former) employees. The charges have been dismissed at the Nine patents in total were asserted: two against Vibe, four against
preliminary hearing, concluded in December 2024, along with Alto and three against Velo. On 5 January 2021, Altria filed an
the charges against all other defendants. This is subject to Amended Complaint adding Modoral Brands Inc. as a defendant
any appeal by the prosecutor, the time limit for which has with respect to the Velo product claims. A claim construction
not yet passed. hearing was held on 28 April 2021, and the court issued its claim
construction ruling on 12 May 2021. All asserted patent claims
Patents and Trademark Litigation
against Vibe and Velo as well as one of the four patents asserted
90. Certain Group companies are party to a number of patent
against Alto were dropped prior to trial, leaving three patents
litigation cases and procedural challenges concerning the
asserted against Alto for trial. Trial was held from 29 August 2022
validity of patents owned by or licensed to them and/or the
to 7 September 2022. The jury found infringement by all accused
alleged infringement of third parties’ patents.
products and awarded approximately US$95 million
91. On 22 June 2018, an affiliate of PMI commenced proceedings (approximately £75.9 million) in damages. On 27 January 2023,
against British American Tobacco Japan, Ltd. (BAT Japan) in the the court rejected Altria's request to double the jury's awarded
Japanese courts challenging the import, export, sale and offer of royalty rate for post-trial sales and set the royalty rate
sale of the glo device and of the NeoStiks consumable in Japan applicable to post-trial sales to the jury's awarded rate of 5.25%.
at the time the claim was brought (and earlier models of the glo Altria did not request entry of an injunction and has stipulated it
device), alleging that the glo devices directly infringe certain will not enforce the monetary judgment until appeals are
claims of two Japanese patents that have been issued to the exhausted. On 10 February 2023, RJR Vapor noticed its appeal
PMI affiliate and that the NeoStiks indirectly infringe certain to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
claims of those patents. On 17 January 2019, the PMI affiliate On 19 December 2024, the Federal Circuit affirmed the lower
introduced new grounds of infringement, alleging that the glo court’s judgment.
device also infringes some other claims in the two PMI affiliate’s
94. On 9 April 2020, RAI Strategic Holdings, Inc. and RJR Vapor
Japanese patents. Damages for the glo device and NeoStiks
commenced an action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
were claimed in the court filing, to the amount of JPY100 million
District of Virginia against Altria Client Services LLC, PM USA,
(£508,060). The PMI affiliate also filed a request for injunction
Altria Group, Inc., PMI and Philip Morris Products S.A. (collectively,
with respect to the glo device. BAT Japan denied infringement
Philip Morris) for infringement of six patents based on the
and challenged the validity of the two PMI affiliate’s Japanese
importation and commercialization within the United States of
patents. On 30 November 2022, the Tokyo District Court
IQOS. On 8 May 2020 and 12 June 2020, Philip Morris filed Inter
dismissed both of the above claims of the PMI affiliate on the
Partes Review (IPR) petitions in the U.S. Patent Office challenging
grounds that both of the above two PMI affiliate's Japanese
the validity of each of the six patents asserted. On 29 June 2020,
patents lack inventive step and would be invalidated by a patent
Philip Morris asserted counterclaims alleging that RJR Vapor
invalidation trial. The PMI affiliate has appealed against this
infringes five patents. On 24 November 2020, the court issued a
judgment. The Intellectual Property High Court upheld this
claim construction order that determined that each disputed term
judgment and dismissed the appeal of the PMI affiliate on
would have its plain and ordinary meaning. On 4 December 2020,
28 November 2023. The PMI affiliate filed a final appeal and a
the magistrate judge issued an order staying RJR Vapor and Philip
petition for acceptance of final appeal against the judgment of
Morris’s patent claims pending a decision by the U.S. Patent Office
the Intellectual Property High Court. Pursuant to a global
regarding whether to proceed with the IPRs. Trial on the Altria and
settlement agreement between Nicoventures and the PMI
Philip Morris patents began on 8 June 2022. Shortly before trial,
affiliate dated 1 February 2024 that resolves all ongoing patent
Philip Morris dropped its claims to one patent and the Altria
infringement litigation between the parties related to the
entities dismissed their claims relating to two patents, which left
Group's Heated Tobacco and Vapour products (PMI
two Philip Morris patents at issue in the trial. On 15 June 2022,
Settlement), the PMI affiliate withdrew all the claims of this
the jury found that RJR Vapor's Alto product infringed two claims
litigation on 5 February 2024.
in one patent and that its Solo product infringed three claims of
the other patent. The jury awarded damages of US$10,759,755
(£8,591,309), which was supplemented by the Court to a total of
US$14,062,742 (£11,228,635) to account for additional sales of Solo
357
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
and Alto through the date of judgment and interest. Philip Morris Mozambican IP Litigation
requested entry of a permanent injunction barring sale of the Alto 98. On 19 April 2017, Sociedade Agrícola de Tabacos, Limitada
and Solo products. On 30 March 2023, the court denied Philip (SAT) (a BAT Group company in Mozambique) filed a complaint
Morris's request for a permanent injunction and ordered ongoing to the National Inspectorate for Economic Activities (INAE),
royalty rates of 1.8% of net sales of Alto cartridges and 2.2% of net the government body under the Ministry of Industry and
sales of Solo G2 cartridges. On 1 May 2023, the court granted RJR Trade, regarding alleged infringements of its registered
Vapor’s motion for entry of judgment under Fed. R. Civ. P. 54(b) trademark (GT) by GS Tobacco SA (GST). INAE subsequently
and denied Philip Morris’s cross motion to lift the stay as to seized the allegedly infringing products (GS cigarettes) and
RJR Vapor’s offensive patent case. The RJR Vapor offensive patent fined and ordered GST to discontinue manufacturing products
case remained stayed pending (i) an appeal by Philip Morris to the that could infringe SAT’s intellectual property rights. Following
Federal Circuit in relation an exclusion order granted against Philip INAE’s decision, in July 2017 and March 2018, SAT sought
Morris by the International Trade Commission based on the damages via the Judicial Court of Nampula, from GST in the
relevant patents, which exclusion order was affirmed by the amount of MZN46,811,700 (£584,893) as well as a permanent
United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on 31 March restraint order in connection with the manufacturing and
2023, and (ii) the decisions in IPRs commenced by Philip Morris selling of the allegedly infringing products. The Judicial Court of
against the relevant patents at the U.S. Patent Office. On 1 May Nampula (Tribunal Judicial de Nampula) granted the order on
2023, RJR Vapor noticed an appeal to the United States Court of an interim basis on 7 August 2017. After hearing the parties, on
Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On 10 May 2023, Philip Morris 5 September 2017, the court found that no alleged
noticed a cross-appeal relating to the denial of its request for a infringement by GST had occurred and removed the interim
permanent injunction and the 17 August 2023 amended judgment restraint order, and rejected the damages claim. This decision
on the verdict. As part of the PMI Settlement, the case has been was appealed by SAT (Infringement Appeal). GST filed an
settled, and the court entered an order granting the parties’ joint application for review against INAE’s initial decision directly to
stipulation of dismissal on 5 February 2024. the Minister of Trade and Industry, which reversed the decision
95. On 27 November 2020 Philip Morris filed a complaint before of INAE. On 31 December 2018, SAT was notified of GST’s
the Regional Court Mannheim in Germany against British counterclaim against SAT at the Judicial Court of Nampula for
American Tobacco (Germany) GmbH (BAT Germany) alleging damages allegedly sustained as a result of SAT’s complaint to
that the sale, offer for sale and importation of Vype ePod INAE (and INAE’s decision). GST is seeking damages in the
products infringes a patent. Philip Morris is seeking an amount of approximately MZN14.5 billion (approximately
injunction, a recall of product from commercial customers £181 million). On 31 January 2019, SAT filed a formal response to
and a declaratory judgment for damages. The trials of this the counterclaim. A preliminary hearing was held on 2 April
action took place on 15 June 2021 and 9 November 2021. 2019, when the court heard arguments on the validity of GST’s
A decision on the matter was promulgated on 30 November counterclaim. On 2 September 2019, SAT received notification
2021. The decision dismissed the complaint in its entirety. On of an order which provided that (i) SAT’s invalidity arguments
28 December 2021, Philip Morris lodged an appeal against this had been dismissed by the court; and (ii) the GST counterclaim
decision before the Higher Regional Court Karlsruhe. Pursuant would proceed to trial. On 9 September 2019, SAT responded
to the PMI Settlement, these proceedings were dismissed on to the order by appealing the dismissal of the SAT invalidity
5 February 2024. arguments (Invalidity Appeal). SAT was notified in December
2021 that the trial of the counterclaim was to take place on 24
96. On 11 December 2020 Philip Morris filed a complaint before the
February 2022. SAT subsequently submitted a complaint
Regional Court Dusseldorf in Germany against BAT Germany
related to that trial to the court, on the basis that prior to any
alleging that the sale, offer for sale and importation of the glo
further step being taken in relation to the trial the process
TABAK HEATER and NeoStiks products infringe a patent. Philip
should be submitted to the superior court for analysis, as per
Morris is seeking an injunction, a recall of product from
the appeals previously submitted in the proceedings. SAT’s
commercial customers and a declaratory judgment for
complaint has been appreciated favourably and the process
damages. The trial of this action took place on 30 November
was remitted to the High Court of Appeal for Nampula. The
2021. The court promulgated its decision on 21 December 2021
Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in respect of SAT’s
and decided that the above-mentioned products infringe the
Infringement Appeal and SAT’s Invalidity Appeal. In respect of
patent. The decision was appealed by BAT Germany on
the Invalidity Appeal, the Court found that the requirements
21 December 2021 to the Higher Regional Court Dusseldorf.
for GST’s counterclaim had not been met, and accordingly
The oral hearing of these appeal proceedings took place on
found that the counterclaim could not proceed. In respect of
24 November 2022. On 15 December 2022, the Higher
the Infringement Appeal, the Court partially upheld the main
Regional Court Dusseldorf reversed the trial court decision
appeal brought by SAT, finding that there had been a partial
and dismissed Philip Morris’s complaint in its entirety.
reproduction of SAT’s trademarks by GST. Consequently, it
In addition, the Higher Regional Court Dusseldorf did not grant
ordered GST to abstain from producing and commercializing
a further appeal to the German Supreme Court
products using packaging similar to that of SAT. However, as
(Bundesgerichtshof (BGH)). PMI filed a motion for leave of
regards SAT’s claim for compensation for damage caused by
appeal with the BGH. Pursuant to the PMI Settlement, these
the conduct of GST the Court found that this loss had not
proceedings were dismissed on 6 February 2024.
been proven. SAT did not appeal the judgment and has not yet
97. On 20 September 2023, Healthier Choices Management Corp. been made aware of an appeal by GST.
(HCMC) commenced proceedings against RJR Vapor before
the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina
against the Vapour product Vuse Alto alleging infringement of
U.S. Patent 9,538,788. On 17 November 2023, RJR Vapor filed
a motion to dismiss the action in its entirety. On 18 September
2024, RJR Vapor filed an IPR challenging the patentability
of the ‘788 patent before the U.S. Patent Trial and Appeal
Board (PTAB). On 27 November 2024, the court granted
RJR Vapor’s motion to stay the litigation pending the PTAB’s
institution decision in the IPR. The IPR decision is expected
in March 2025.
358
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Malawi Group Action Cigarette Filter Litter Litigation
99. In December 2020, the Company and British American Tobacco 103.On 21 November 2022, the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore,
(GLP) Limited (GLP) were named as defendants in a claim made Maryland, filed a lawsuit in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City
in the English High Court by around 7,500 Malawian tobacco naming the Company and RJRT, as well as PM USA, Altria
farmers and their family members. The claim also names Imperial Group, Liggett Group LLC and a Maryland-based distributor,
Brands plc and five affiliates as defendants. The claimants allege as defendants. RJRT was served on 13 December 2022, and the
they were subjected to unlawful and exploitative working Company received the complaint on 18 January 2023. The
conditions on tobacco farms from which it is alleged that the plaintiff, a municipality, alleges that the defendants
defendants indirectly acquire tobacco. They seek unquantified manufactured, distributed and sold non-biodegradable
damages (including aggravated and exemplary damages) for the cigarette filters with knowledge that consumers would discard
torts of negligence and conversion and unquantified personal and used filters on public property owned by the plaintiff, and
proprietary remedies for restitution of unjust enrichment. They further alleges that the defendants failed to warn consumers
also seek an injunction to restrain the commission of further torts of the alleged environmental impacts of littered filters. The
of conversion or negligence by the defendants. The defendants plaintiff asserts causes of action for alleged violation of state
had an application to strike out the claims dismissed in a judgment and municipal civil and criminal anti-littering and dumping laws,
dated 25 June 2021. In January 2022, the Company and GLP were trespass, strict liability and negligent design defect, public
served with a similar claim by around a further 3,500 claimants. nuisance, and strict liability and negligent failure to warn.
The Company and GLP intend vigorously to defend the claims. The plaintiff seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages
(including punitive damages) for costs allegedly incurred
Middle East Litigation
removing discarded cigarette filters from public property, and
100.On 6 November 2023, Walid Ahmed Mohammed Al Naghi for
for alleged damage to land and natural resources and property
Trading Establishment (Al Naghi), a former distributor for the
value diminution, along with fines under state and municipal
Group’s operating companies in the Middle East, filed a claim
laws. On 3 February 2023, PM USA filed a notice of removal
in the Commercial Court in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, seeking
of the litigation to the Federal District Court in Baltimore,
SAR2,105,356,121 (£447 million) for reimbursement of funds
Maryland. The plaintiff moved to remand the action back to the
allegedly due under contract. The claim named British American
Circuit Court for Baltimore City on 20 March 2023. The federal
Tobacco Middle East W.L.L. as the defendant. At a hearing on 13
court, following briefing on the motion, issued an order on
May 2024, the Court of First Instance gave an oral decision
19 January 2024 remanding the action back to the Circuit Court
dismissing Al Naghi’s claim on the merits. That decision was
for Baltimore City. On 19 March 2024, the Company filed a
confirmed in a written judgment issued on 24 May 2024. On 23
motion to dismiss the complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction
June 2024, Al Naghi filed an appeal against the Court of First
and for failure to state a legal claim. That same date,
Instance Judgment. At a hearing on 17 July 2024, the Appellate
defendants RJRT, PM USA, Liggett Group LLC, and a Maryland-
Court gave an oral decision dismissing Al Naghi’s appeal and
based distributor moved to dismiss the complaint for failure
upholding the Court of First Instance’s judgment. Al Naghi
to state a legal claim. The Company was voluntarily dismissed
appealed to the Saudi Supreme Court, and on 12 November 2024,
from the action without prejudice via a stipulation of dismissal
the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal.
filed 2 May 2024. The case remains pending against RJRT and
101. In late December 2023, B.A.T. (U.K. and Export) Limited (BAT other defendants. Briefing on those defendants’ pending
UKE) received a request for arbitration proceedings from a motion to dismiss is completed, oral argument was held on
customer/distributor in the Middle East. In February 2024, the 17 July 2024, and a decision is pending.
claimants joined British American Tobacco ME DMCC (BAT
U.S. Securities Putative Class Action
ME DMCC) to the arbitration proceedings. The claimants filed
104.On 24 January 2024, Gary David, a purported holder of
their Statement of Claim in August 2023, seeking damages of
Company securities, initiated a putative class action in the
approximately US$118 million (approximately £94 million). BAT
United States District Court for the Eastern District of New
UKE and BAT ME DMCC filed their Statement of Defence in
York on behalf of all purchasers of publicly traded Company
February 2025 and the proceedings are continuing.
securities between 9 February 2023 and 6 December 2023.
Asbestos Litigation
The complaint names the Company and certain of its current
102. As of 31 December 2024, there were five active asbestos personal and former officers as defendants, and alleges that during the
injury cases served and pending against BATUS Holdings Inc. class period the defendants made false or misleading public
(Lowis, Weber, Hardaway, Horsfield, and Harshberger). During statements regarding the risks and potential likelihood of an
the financial year 2024, BATUS Holdings Inc. was served with four impairment charge to the value of the Reynolds American
new asbestos personal injury cases, and was dismissed from cash-generating units or its brand intangibles. The complaint
12 asbestos personal injury cases (Phillips, Cooke, Dove, Gibbs, does not quantify the claimed damages. The plaintiff
Westropp, Knight, Steggles, Doonan, Oakenfold, Redgewell, voluntarily dismissed the complaint on 18 December 2024.
Caswell, and Adams). On 30 January 2025, BATUS Holdings Inc.
Fox River
was dismissed from Harshberger, filed in the Court of Common
Background to environmental liabilities arising out of
Pleas, Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania.The plaintiffs in each
contamination of the Fox River:
case allege exposure to the defendants’ asbestos and asbestos-
containing talcum powder and cosmetics products, and assert 105.U.S. authorities identified potentially responsible parties
claims under state law, including for negligence, breach of (PRPs), including NCR Corporation (NCR) (now called NCR
warranty, strict liability, conspiracy, fraud and wrongful death. The Voyix Corporation), to fund the clean-up of polluted sediments
plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. in the Lower Fox River, Wisconsin. Discharges of
Of the four active cases, one case (Lowis) is filed in the Supreme Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) from paper mills and other
Court of the State of New York (New York County), another facilities operating close to the river caused that pollution.
(Weber) is filed in the Circuit Court of the 17th Judicial Circuit in Industries’ involvement with the environmental liabilities
and for Broward County, Florida, another (Hardaway) was filed arises out of (i) indemnity arrangements which it became
in the District Court for Bexar County, Texas, and subsequently party to due to various transactions that took place from the
transferred to the District Court for Harris County, Texas, and late-1970s onwards and (ii) subsequent litigation brought by
another (Horsfield) is filed in the Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial NCR against Industries and Appvion Inc. (Appvion) (a former
Circuit in and for Miami-Dade, Florida. In each of these cases, Group subsidiary) in relation to those arrangements.
BATUS Holdings Inc. has filed motions to dismiss for lack of
personal jurisdiction, which remain pending.
359
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
106.Following substantial litigation in the United States regarding c) NCR agreed to accept funding by Industries at the level
the responsibility for the costs of the clean-up operations, and of 50% of NCR’s share of the ongoing clean-up related
enforcement proceedings brought by the U.S. Government costs of the Fox River (rather than the 60% referenced
against NCR and Appvion to ensure compliance with above). This remains subject to an ability to litigate at a
regulatory orders made relating to the Fox River clean-up, later stage the extent of Industries’ liability (if any) in
the District Court of Wisconsin approved (on 23 August 2017) relation to Fox River clean-up-related costs (including
a form of settlement with the U.S. Government known as a in respect of the 50% of costs that Industries has paid
Consent Decree. with express reservation under the Funding Agreement
107.A key term of that Consent Decree is that NCR was obliged to date).
to perform and fund all of the remaining Fox River remediation 114. Additionally, Windward has contributed US$10 million
work by itself. (£8.0 million) of funding. Appvion has contributed
108.A cost breakdown filed in support of the motion to approve US$25 million (£20.0 million) for Fox River and agreed to
the Consent Decree estimates the total Fox River clean-up contribute US$25 million (£20.0 million) for the Kalamazoo
costs (including natural resource damages) to be River (see further below). Appvion entered Chapter 11
US$1,346 million (£1,075 million). bankruptcy protection on 1 October 2017.
109.A further Consent Decree between the U.S. Government, 115. The parties also agreed to cooperate in order to maximise
P.H. Glatfelter Company and Georgia-Pacific Consumer recoveries from certain claims made against third parties,
Products LP (Georgia-Pacific), approved by the Wisconsin including (i) a claim commenced by Windward in the High
District Court on 14 March 2019, concluded all remaining Court of England & Wales (the High Court) against Sequana
litigation relating to the Fox River. In November 2019, S.A. (Sequana) and the former Windward directors (the
an arbitral tribunal awarded approximately US$10 million Windward Dividend Claim), assigned to BTI under the Funding
(approximately £8.0 million) to the remediation contractor Agreement, and which relates to dividend payments made by
engaged by a limited liability company formed by NCR and Windward to Sequana of around €443 million (approximately
Appvion to perform the Fox River clean-up operation. NCR £366 million) in 2008 and €135 million (£112 million) in 2009
has stated (in its 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K) that its (the Dividend Payments) and (ii) a claim commenced by
indemnitors and co-obligors were responsible for the majority Industries directly against Sequana to recover the value of the
of the award, with its own share being approximately 25%. Dividend Payments alleging that the dividends were paid for
the purpose of putting assets beyond the reach of
110. On 3 October 2022, the United States Environmental
Windward’s creditors (including Industries) (the BAT section
Protection Agency issued a Certificate of Completion in
423 Claim) (together, the Sequana Proceedings).
respect of remedial action for the Lower Fox River. Industries’
involvement with environmental liabilities arising out of the 116. Pursuant to a judgment of the High Court handed down on
contamination of the Fox River: 11 July 2016, the court upheld the BAT section 423 Claim. By
way of a consequential judgment dated 10 February 2017, the
111. NCR's position is that, under the terms of a 1998 Confidential High Court ordered that Sequana pay to BTI an amount up to
Settlement Agreement (CSA) between it, Appvion and the full value of the 2009 Dividend plus interest, equating to
Industries, and a 2005 arbitration award, Industries and around US$185 million (approximately £147.7 million). The
Appvion had a joint and several obligation to bear 60% of the Court dismissed the Windward Dividend Claim (the Judgment).
Fox River environmental remediation costs imposed on NCR
117. The parties pursued cross-appeals on the Judgment
and of any amounts NCR has to pay in respect of other Fox
and payments in respect of the Judgment were stayed. On
River PRPs’ contribution claims. BAT has not acknowledged
6 February 2019 the Court of Appeal gave judgment upholding
any such liability to NCR and has defences to such claims.
the High Court’s findings, with one immaterial change to
112. Until May 2012, Appvion and Windward Prospects Limited the method of calculating the damages awarded. Sequana
(Windward) (another former Group subsidiary) which remains liable to make some payment in respect of the Judgment.
indemnified Industries, paid a 60% share of the clean-up costs
118. On 15 May 2019, the Nanterre Commercial Court made an
incurred by NCR. Industries was never required to contribute.
order placing Sequana into formal liquidation proceedings.
Around that time, Appvion refused to continue to pay clean-
To date, Sequana has made no payments to Industries.
up costs, NCR therefore demanded that Industries pay a 60%
Because of Sequana’s ongoing insolvency process,
share of those costs. Industries resisted NCR's demand and
execution of the Judgment has been and is stayed.
commenced proceedings against Windward and Appvion
seeking confirmation of indemnities provided to Industries in 119. BTI subsequently appealed to the Supreme Court in respect
respect of any liability it might have to NCR (the English of the Windward Dividend Claims against the former
Indemnity Proceedings) pursuant to a 1990 de-merger Windward Directors. On 5 October 2022, the Supreme Court
agreement between those parties. handed down its judgment, dismissing BTI's appeal.
Funding Agreement of 30 September 2014 120.BTI brought claims against Windward’s former auditors and
advisers (which claims were also assigned to BTI under the
113. On 30 September 2014, Industries entered into a Funding
Funding Agreement). BTI commenced a claim against
Agreement with Windward, Appvion, NCR and BTI 2014 LLC
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) in the High Court in
(BTI) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Industries). Pursuant to
the Funding Agreement:
respect of its role as Windward’s auditor at the time of the
dividend payments. Trial commenced on 4 June 2024. The
a) the English Indemnity Proceedings (and a related claims were settled on 21 June 2024, pursuant to the terms set
counterclaim) and NCR-Appvion arbitration were out in a confidential settlement agreement entered into by BTI,
discontinued; PWC and the joint administrators of Windward (who were a
b) the parties agreed a framework through which they nominal party to the proceedings). An agreed stay is in place in
would together fund the ongoing costs of the Fox respect of BTI’s separate assigned claim against Freshfields
River clean-up; and Bruckhaus Deringer.
360
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
121. The sums Industries has paid under the Funding Agreement 126.In summary, in respect of Fox River and Kalamazoo River,
are subject to the reservation as set out in paragraph 113(c) Industries is and has been taking active steps to protect its
above and ongoing adjustment. Clean-up costs can only be interests. These include preparation of all its defences and
estimated in advance of the work being carried out and counterclaims, seeking to obtain the repayment of sums
certain sums payable are the subject of ongoing U.S. litigation. representing the Windward dividends, pursuing the other
In 2019, Industries paid £32 million in respect of clean-up valuable claims that are now within its control, obtaining
costs. In 2020, Industries paid £2 million in respect of clean-up settlement in respect of some of those and working with
costs. In 2021, Industries paid a further £2 million in respect of the other parties to the Funding Agreement to obtain and
clean-up costs. In 2022, Industries has paid an additional maximise recoveries from third parties. This has been done
£1 million in respect of clean-up costs. Industries is potentially to ensure amounts funded by Industries towards clean-up
liable for further costs associated with the clean-up. Industries related costs are later recouped under the agreed repayment
has a provision of £44 million which represents the current mechanisms under the Funding Agreement.
best estimate of its exposure – see note 24. Other environmental matters
Kalamazoo 127. Reynolds American and its subsidiaries are subject to federal,
122.Georgia-Pacific, a designated PRP in respect of the state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning
Kalamazoo River in Michigan, also pursued NCR in relation the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or
to remediation costs caused by PCBs released into that river. toxic substances. Such laws and regulations provide for
On 26 September 2013, the United States District Court, significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without
Michigan held that NCR was liable as a PRP on the basis that regard to whether the owner or operator of the property or
it had arranged for the disposal of hazardous material for the facility knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence
purposes of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, of hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, third parties
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). may make claims against owners or operators of properties
123.Following further litigation, on 11 December 2019, NCR for personal injuries and property damage associated with
announced that it had entered into a Consent Decree with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. In the past, RJRT
the U.S. Government and the State of Michigan (subsequently has been named a PRP with third parties under CERCLA with
approved by the Michigan Court on 2 December 2020), respect to several superfund sites. Reynolds American and its
pursuant to which it assumed liability for certain remediation subsidiaries are not aware of any current environmental
work at the Kalamazoo River. The payments to be made on matters that are expected to have a material adverse effect
the face of the Consent Decree in respect of such work total on the business, results of operations or financial position of
approximately US$245 million (approximately £195.6 million). Reynolds American or its subsidiaries.
The Consent Decree also provides for the payment by NCR Investigations
of an outstanding judgment against it of approximately 128.The Group investigates, and becomes aware of governmental
US$20 million (approximately £16.0 million) to Georgia-Pacific. authorities’ investigations into, allegations of misconduct,
124.The quantum of the clean-up costs for the Kalamazoo River including alleged breaches of sanctions and allegations of
is presently unclear. It seems likely to exceed the amounts corruption at Group companies. Some of these allegations are
payable on the face of the Consent Decree. currently being investigated. The Group cooperates with the
authorities, where appropriate.
125.On 10 February 2023, NCR filed a complaint in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York 129.Competition Investigations. There are instances where the
against Industries, seeking a declaration that Industries must Group investigates or where Group companies are
compensate NCR for 60% of costs NCR incurred and incurs cooperating with relevant national competition authorities in
relating to the Kalamazoo River site on the asserted basis that relation to competition law investigations and/or engaged in
the Kalamazoo River constitutes a ‘Future Site’ for the legal proceedings at the appellate level, including (amongst
purposes of the CSA. The Funding Agreement described others) in the Netherlands. In regards to the previously
above does not resolve the claims. On 23 June 2023, Industries disclosed consent order entered into with the Nigerian
filed its defence and counterclaims in the proceedings. On Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission
2 October 2023, NCR filed a motion for declaratory judgment (FCCPC) by British American Tobacco (Holdings) Limited,
on its Complaint and to strike out Industries’ affirmative British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited and British
defences and dismiss Industries’ counterclaims. Industries American Tobacco Marketing (Nigeria) Limited in December
opposed this motion. On 14 September 2024, the court issued 2022, the two-year monitorship remains ongoing following its
a judgment in respect of the motion, striking out one of formal commencement in 2023.
Industries’ eight affirmative defences and dismissing three of 130.On 25 April 2023, the Group announced that it had reached
Industries’ five counterclaims. A pre-trial conference occurred agreement with DOJ and the United States Department of
on 30 October 2024, following which a case management the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Controls (OFAC) to
order was issued. The parties are scheduled to complete all resolve previously disclosed investigations into suspicions
fact discovery by 11 July 2025. of sanctions breaches. These concerned business activities
relating to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
between 2007 and 2017. The Company entered into a three-
year deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) with DOJ and a
civil settlement agreement with OFAC. DOJ’s charges against
the Company—one count of conspiring to commit bank fraud
and one count of conspiring to violate sanctions laws—were
filed and will later be dismissed if the Company abides by the
terms of the DPA. In addition, a BAT subsidiary in Singapore,
British-American Tobacco Marketing (Singapore) Private
Limited, pleaded guilty to the same charges. The total amount
payable to the U.S. authorities is approximately US$635 million
plus interest, which has been paid by the Company.
361
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Closed litigation matters
131. The following matters on which the Company reported in the contingent liabilities and financial commitments note 31 to the
Company’s 2023 financial statements have been dismissed, concluded or resolved as noted below and shall not be included in
future reports:
Matter Jurisdiction Companies named as Defendants Description Disposition
British American Tobacco Court judgment in
Middle Eastern Litigation Saudi Arabia Middle East W.L.L. Commercial Litigation favour of Defendants
B.A.T (U.K. and Export) Court judgment in
Middle Eastern Litigation Saudi Arabia Limited Commercial Litigation favour of Defendants
Stuck, Mannooch,
Phillips, Cooke, Dove,
Gibbs, Westropp, Knight,
Steggles, Doonan, Court judgment
Oakenfold, Redgewell, dismissing Defendant
Caswell, Adams, and (Stuck and Manooch) /
Harshberger (asbestos Voluntary dismissal by
litigation) U.S. BATUS Holdings Inc Personal Injury plaintiffs
Reynolds American, RJR Voluntary dismissal by
Bernston U.S. Vapor Vuse litigation plaintiffs
Voluntary dismissal by
Chastain U.S. RJR Vapor Vuse litigation plaintiffs
U.S. Securities Putative British American Tobacco Voluntary dismissal by
Class Action U.S. p.l.c. Class action plaintiffs
Modoral / Swedish Joint stipulation of
Match U.S. Modoral Brands Inc Patent litigation dismissal
U.S. PM patent
counterclaim (Alto and RAI Strategic Holdings, Inc., Joint stipulation of
Solo) U.S. RJR Vapor Patent litigation dismissal
Nicoventures Trading
Philip Morris Products Limited, British American
S.A. counterclaim (2-part England and Tobacco (Investments) Joint stipulation of
heater) Wales Limited Patent litigation dismissal
Joint stipulation of
British American Tobacco dismissal
Vype Epod litigation Germany (Germany) GmbH Patent litigation (Klagerücknahme)
Joint stipulation of
British American Tobacco dismissal
Glo litigation Germany (Germany) GmbH Patent litigation (Klagerücknahme)
British American Tobacco Joint stipulation of
Glo litigation Japan Japan, Ltd. Patent litigation dismissal
General Litigation Conclusion
132.While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group
believes that the defences of the Group’s companies to all these various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and
a vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
133.If adverse judgments are entered against any of the Group’s companies in any case, avenues of appeal will be pursued. Such appeals
could require the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security in amounts which could in some cases equal or exceed the
amount of the judgment.
134.At least in the aggregate, and despite the quality of defences available to the Group, it is possible that the Group’s results of
operations or cash flows in any particular period could be materially adversely affected by the impact of a significant increase in
litigation, difficulties in obtaining the bonding required to stay execution of judgments on appeal, or any final outcome of any
particular litigation, or governmental investigation.
135.Having regard to all these matters, with the exception of the Proposed Plans and Fox River (see note 24), the Group does not
consider it appropriate to make any provision in respect of any pending litigation because the likelihood of any resulting material loss,
on an individual case basis, is not considered probable and/or the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated. In
addition, the Group accrues for damages, attorneys' fees and/or statutory interest, including in respect of certain Engle Progeny
cases, certain U.S. individual smoking and health cases and the DOJ medical reimbursement/corrective statement case.
362
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Other contingencies Loews (including with respect to any product liability claims).
136.JTI Indemnities. By a purchase agreement dated 9 March Loews is a defendant in three pending product liability actions,
1999, amended and restated as at 11 May 1999, referred to each of which is a putative class action. Pursuant to the
as the 1999 Purchase Agreement, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Separation Agreement, Lorillard is required to indemnify
Holdings, Inc. (RJR) and RJRT sold their international tobacco Loews for the amount of any losses and any legal or other fees
business to JTI. Under the 1999 Purchase Agreement, RJR and with respect to such cases. Following the closing of the
RJRT retained certain liabilities relating to the international Lorillard merger, RJRT assumed Lorillard’s obligations under
tobacco business sold to JTI, and agreed to indemnify JTI the Separation Agreement as was required under the
against: (i) any liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of Separation Agreement.
the imposition or assessment of any tax with respect to the 140.SFRTI Indemnity. In connection with the 13 January 2016 sale
international tobacco business arising prior to the sale, other by Reynolds American of the international rights to the NAS
than as reflected on the closing balance sheet; (ii) any brand name and associated trademarks, along with SFR
liabilities, costs and expenses that JTI or any of its affiliates, Tobacco International GmbH (SFRTI) and other international
including the acquired entities, may incur after the sale with companies that distributed and marketed the brand outside
respect to any of RJR’s or RJRT’s employee benefit and the United States, to JT International Holding BV (JTI Holding),
welfare plans; and (iii) any liabilities, costs and expenses each of SFNTC, R. J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc., and
incurred by JTI or any of its affiliates arising out of certain R. J. Reynolds Tobacco B.V. agreed to indemnify JTI Holding
activities of Northern Brands. against, among other things, any liabilities, costs, and
137. RJRT has received claims for indemnification from JTI, and expenses relating to actions (i) commenced on or before
several of these have been resolved. Although RJR and RJRT (a) 13 January 2019, to the extent relating to alleged personal
recognise that, under certain circumstances, they may have injuries, and (b) in all other cases, 13 January 2021; (ii) brought
other unresolved indemnification obligations to JTI under by (a) a governmental authority to enforce legislation
the 1999 Purchase Agreement, RJR and RJRT disagree what implementing European Union Directive 2001/37/EC
circumstances described in such claims give rise to any or European Directive 2014/40/EU or (b) consumers or a
indemnification obligations by RJR and RJRT and the nature consumer association; and (iii) arising out of any statement
and extent of any such obligation. RJR and RJRT have or claim (a) made on or before 13 January 2016, (b) by any
conveyed their position to JTI, and the parties have agreed company sold to JTI Holding in the transaction, (c) concerning
to resolve their differences at a later date. NAS brand products consumed or intended to be consumed
outside of the United States and (d) that the NAS brand
138.ITG Indemnity. In the purchase agreement relating to the
product is natural, organic, or additive-free.
Divestiture as amended, Reynolds American agreed to defend
and indemnify, subject to certain conditions and limitations, ITG 141. Indemnification of Distributors and Retailers. RJRT, Lorillard
in connection with claims relating to the purchase or use of one Tobacco, SFNTC, American Snuff Co. and RJR Vapor have
or more of the Winston, Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette entered into agreements to indemnify certain distributors and
brands on or before 12 June 2015, as well as in actions filed retailers from liability and related defence costs arising out of
before 13 June 2025, relating to the purchase or use of one or the sale or distribution of their products. Additionally, SFNTC
more of the Winston, Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette brands. has entered into an agreement to indemnify a supplier from
In the purchase agreement relating to the Divestiture, ITG liability and related defence costs arising out of the sale or use
agreed to defend and indemnify, subject to certain conditions of SFNTC’s products. The cost has been, and is expected to be,
and limitations, Reynolds American and its affiliates in insignificant. RJRT, SFNTC, American Snuff Co. and RJR Vapor
connection with claims relating to the purchase or use of ‘blu’ believe that the indemnified claims are substantially similar in
brand e-cigarettes. ITG also agreed to defend and indemnify, nature and extent to the claims that they are already exposed
subject to certain conditions and limitations, Reynolds to by virtue of their having manufactured those products.
American and its affiliates in actions filed after 12 June 2025, 142.Except as otherwise noted above, Reynolds American is not
relating to the purchase or use of one or more of the Winston, able to estimate the maximum potential of future payments,
Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette brands after 12 June 2015. ITG if any, related to these indemnification obligations.
has tendered a number of actions to Reynolds American under
the terms of this indemnity, and Reynolds American has,
subject to a reservation of rights, agreed to defend and
indemnify ITG pursuant to the terms of the indemnity. Reynolds
American has tendered an action to ITG under the terms of this
indemnity, and ITG has, subject to a reservation of rights,
agreed to defend and indemnify Reynolds American and its
affiliates pursuant to the terms of the indemnity.
These claims are substantially similar in nature and extent to
claims asserted directly against RJRT in similar actions.
139.Loews Indemnity. In 2008, Loews Corporation (Loews),
entered into an agreement with Lorillard Inc., Lorillard
Tobacco, and certain of their affiliates, which agreement is
referred to as the ‘Separation Agreement’. In the Separation
Agreement, Lorillard agreed to indemnify Loews and its
officers, directors, employees and agents against all costs and
expenses arising out of third-party claims (including, without
limitation, attorneys’ fees, interest, penalties and costs of
investigation or preparation of defence), judgments, fines,
losses, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes, demands,
assessments, and amounts paid in settlement based on,
arising out of or resulting from, among other things, Loews’
ownership of or the operation of Lorillard and its assets and
properties, and its operation or conduct of its businesses at
any time prior to or following the separation of Lorillard and
363
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Tax disputes Indonesia
The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a Indonesia’s Directorate General of Taxes has filed assessments
number of taxes. The Group is and has been subject to a number of tax against Bentoel group companies mainly relating to domestic and
audits covering, amongst others, excise tax, value added taxes, sales other intra-group transactions during the years 2016-2021.
taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes. Provisions totalling IDR2,151 billion (£107 million) have been made in
The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided in respect of claims totalling IDR6,641 billion (£329 million) including
these accounts in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. In interest and penalties. Objection letters have been filed with the
some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of disputed Tax Office and these assessments are being challenged at various
tax assessments be made pending resolution of the dispute. To the levels in court.
extent that such payments exceed the estimated obligation, they Netherlands
would not be recognised as an expense. While the amounts that may The Dutch tax authority has issued a number of assessments on
be payable or receivable in relation to tax disputes could be material to various issues across the years 2003-2016 in relation to various
the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are intra-group transactions. The assessments amount to an
recognised, the Board does not expect these amounts to have a aggregate net potential liability across these periods of
material effect on the Group’s financial condition. £1,140 million covering tax, interest and penalties. The Group
The following matters are in or may proceed to litigation: appealed against the assessments in full.
Corporate taxes In relation to the periods from 2003-2007 (with an aggregate
Brazil potential net liability of £7 million), the Court of Appeal Amsterdam
issued judgments on 8th October 2024. The appeal against the
Profits of overseas subsidiaries. The Brazilian Federal Tax Authority
assessments was upheld, with the court finding for the Group. The
has filed claims against Souza Cruz seeking to reassess the profits
Dutch tax authority have appealed to the Supreme Court.
of overseas subsidiaries to corporate income tax and social
contribution tax. The reassessments are for the years 2004 until In relation to the periods from 2008-2013 (with an aggregate
and including 2012 for a total amount of BRL1,858 million potential net liability of £183 million), the District Court of North
(£240 million) to cover tax, interest and penalties. Holland issued judgments on 17th October 2022, resulting in
findings against the Group on a number of issues. These
Souza Cruz appealed all reassessments. Regarding the first
judgments have been appealed to the Court of Appeal.
assessments (2004-2006), Souza Cruz’s appeals were rejected by
the ultimate Administrative Court after which Souza Cruz filed two On the 15 December 2023, the Dutch District Court issued its
lawsuits with the Judicial Court to appeal the reassessments. The judgement covering the period 2014-2016 (with an aggregate
judgment in respect of the reassessment of corporate income tax potential net liability of £950 million). On the issue of mark to
has been decided in favour of Souza Cruz by the first level of the market losses on external bonds of British American Tobacco
Judicial Court and Souza Cruz is waiting to see whether the Holdings (The Netherlands) B.V., the appeal against the
Brazilian Tax Authorities will appeal the judgment. The lawsuit assessments was upheld in full, with the court finding for the
appealing the social contribution tax is pending judgment in the Group. In relation to other intra-group transactions, including the
first level of the Judicial Court. The appeal against the second termination of licence rights, the court found against the Group.
assessments (2007 and 2008) was upheld at the second tier Both the Group and Dutch tax authorities have appealed against
tribunal and was closed. In 2015, a further reassessment for the items lost to the Court of Appeal.
same period (2007 and 2008) was raised after the five-year statute Having considered the judgment and the Dutch judicial and
of limitation which has been appealed against. Souza Cruz received international proceedings available to it, the Group recognised a
further reassessments in 2014 for the 2009 calendar year and in further adjusting charge of £70 million in 2023, with a total
2015 an assessment for the 2010 calendar year. Souza Cruz provision of £144 million recognised at 31 December 2024.
appealed both the reassessments in full. In December 2016,
As part of the 15 December 2023, judgement the assessed fine
assessments were received for the calendar years 2011 and 2012
of £108 million for the filing of an intentionally incorrect tax return
which have also been appealed. In October 2023, the administrative
was upheld but reduced to £92 million. The Group has appealed
courts issued their judgments on all of the remaining cases from
in full to the Court of Appeal and considers no provision is
2007 to 2012. In three of the four cases (2009-2012) the court
appropriate. Appeal hearings took place in the second half of 2024,
decision was tied, with five judges each siding for the tax authority
with the Court of Appeal judgment expected in the first half of
and for the taxpayer. In these circumstances the tax authorities
2025.
are presumed to prevail but potential penalties are reduced. The
procedural appeal regarding 2007 and 2008 was rejected. All The Group believes that its companies have meritorious defences
judgments have been appealed to the judicial courts. in law and fact in each of the above matters and intends to pursue
each dispute through the judicial system as necessary.
Rio de Janeiro VAT Incentives. The Brazilian Federal Tax authority
has challenged the treatment of Rio de Janeiro VAT incentives.
In October 2021, in respect of the 2016-2021 calendar years, the
authorities' position was upheld at the lower Judicial Court. Souza
Cruz has appealed in full against the Judgment. In June 2024, the
Brazilian tax authorities initiated a tax audit specifically focused
on the exclusion of the VAT incentives from corporate income tax.
Consideration of the defence strategy led Management to file a
petition to withdraw its judicial claims in order to be able to defend
the company’s position in the administrative courts. The Brazilian
Federal Tax authority filed an appeal challenging the withdrawal of
the judicial claim. The Brazil Tax Authorities' appeal was
unsuccessful and they have confirmed that they do not intend to
appeal further. This has resulted in a reversal of the benefit
recognised for the company’s claim for the period 2016-2019 of
BRL327 million (£42 million) and a provision for potential exposure
to tax, interest and penalties of BRL969 million (£125 million) for
the 2020-2023 period, reflecting the tax assessment received and
a binding Supreme Court decision which reduces the value of
these incentives by 10% (as described in note 6(k)).
364
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Indirect and other taxes South Korea
Bangladesh In 2016, the Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea (BAI) concluded
In January 2019, a competitor filed a writ petition against the its tax assessment in relation to the 2014 year-end tobacco inventory,
government and the National Board of Revenue (NBR) by which and imposed additional national excise, local excise, VAT taxes and
it initially challenged the failure of Government to implement the penalties. This resulted in the recognition of a KRW80.7 billion
closing budget speech of the Honourable Finance Minister dated (£44 million) charge by Group subsidiaries, Rothmans Far East B.V.
27 June 2018 and reserving low segment for local brands. Korea Branch Office and BAT Korea Manufacturing Ltd.
Thereafter, the competitor instead challenged the exclusion of Management deems the tax to be unfounded and has appealed to
protection given to local brands of cigarette manufactured by local the tax tribunal against the assessment. On grounds of materiality
manufacturers and sought a direction to continue the protection and the likelihood of the tax being reversed in future, the Group
so granted to the local manufacturers of cigarettes in pursuance classified the tax and penalties charge as an adjusting item in 2016.
of a 2017 Special Order. The competitor further challenged the For the VAT portion of the assessments of KRW6.7 billion
legality of a 2018 Special Order of the NBR through which the said (£4 million), the trial court ruled in favour of Rothmans Far East B.V.
protection was revoked. British American Tobacco Bangladesh Korea Branch Office in 2019. The Korean government appealed the
Company Limited (BAT Bangladesh) was initially not a party to the ruling immediately thereafter but the appellate court affirmed the
writ petition, subsequently it became a party through an addition ruling of the trial court. The decision was finally affirmed by the
of party application. Upon hearing on multiple occasions, the High Supreme Court in 2021 and Rothmans Far East B.V. Korea Branch
Court passed judgment in the matter on 21 September 2020. BAT Office duly received the amount litigated (VAT portion) including
Bangladesh filed an appeal against the High Court order and statutory interests shortly thereafter in 2021.
obtained a stay on 4 October 2020. By holding the prospective
For the local and national excise portion of the assessments, the
portion of the 2018 Special Order legal, the Court did not allow the
trial court ruled in favour of the Korean government in June 2020
discriminatory regime to continue. However, by holding illegal the
and the decision was affirmed by the appellate court in September
retrospective portion of the 2018 Special Order, the Court revived
2023. British American Tobacco Korea Manufacturing Ltd.
the discriminatory regime for only one year, that is from 1 June
appealed to the Supreme Court in October 2023. The Supreme
2017 to 6 June 2018 and held that any shortfall of revenue under
Court has not set a hearing date yet and the case is currently
the 2017 Special Order may be recovered from any party or
pending at the Supreme Court.
manufacturer during the period of 1 June 2017 to 6 June 2018.
Subsequently, the Large Taxpayers’ Unit (LTU) VAT issued a show
cause notice dated 24 September 2020 following the High Court
judgment claiming unpaid VAT & Supplementary Duty (SD) of
BDT24,371 million (£163 million) from 1 June 2017 to 6 June 2018.
BAT Bangladesh appealed against the High Court judgment before
the Appellate Division and obtained an order of stay. Since the High
Court judgment is stayed, the LTU proceeding shall also be
deemed to have been stayed.
In addition, BAT Bangladesh has received a memo from the NBR
claiming BDT20,540 million (£137 million). This claim is related to
VAT and SD allegedly owed by BAT Bangladesh due to the
production of an extra 18 billion cigarettes. The allegation is based
on an undisclosed purchase of local leaf, which is apparently
inferred from a discrepancy found in BAT Bangladesh's 2016
Annual Report and VAT-1 records. NBR has reopened the matter
and sent a memo to LTU cancelling the earlier order of the LTU
Commissioner which was in favour of BAT Bangladesh and
directing LTU to make the demand to BAT Bangladesh claiming
the above-mentioned VAT and SD. Subsequently, BAT Bangladesh
has received an official demand for payment related to this claim
from LTU. BAT Bangladesh has challenged the memo of NBR and
obtained a Rule in this regard. It has also challenged the demand
letter of LTU and prayed for issuance of a supplementary rule and
stayed the demand letter. The matter is currently pending before
the High Court.
BAT Bangladesh has also received show cause notices from the
NBR alleging that the company has avoided excise payment
amounting to BDT3,794 million (£25 million) during 2020 to 2024.
The notices claimed that the excise avoidance occurred due to the
supply of cigarettes stored in BAT Bangladesh’s warehouse to its
distributors at increased prices. BAT Bangladesh formally
responded to the show cause notices, asserting that it has always
acted within the law and hence the basis of the allegation and
claim is unfounded. A hearing took place regarding the first show
cause notice for BDT1,687 million (£11 million) on 13 November
2024 following which the NBR has issued a demand for the
£11 million. Subsequently, on 13 January 2025, BAT Bangladesh filed
a writ in the High Court, challenging the demand on point of law.
The remaining show cause notices are currently pending hearing.
365
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Commitments in relation to service contracts, non-capitalised leases
The total future minimum payments under non-cancellable service contracts based on when payments fall due:
2024 2023
£m £m
Service contracts
Within one year 63 41
Between one and five years 30 46
Beyond five years — —
93 87
Financial commitments arising from short-term leases and leases of low-value assets that are not capitalised under IFRS 16 Leases are
£10 million (2023: £26 million) for property and £2 million (2023: £9 million) for plant, equipment and other assets.
32 Interests in subsidiaries
Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests principally arise from the Group’s listed investment in Bangladesh (British American Tobacco Bangladesh
Company Limited) where the Group held 72.91% in 2024, 2023 and 2022. Summarised financial information for Bangladesh is shown
below as required by IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities. No adjustments have been made to the information below for the
elimination of intercompany transactions and balances with the rest of the Group.
2024 2023 2022
Summarised financial information £m £m £m
Revenue 673 680 732
Profit for the year 118 133 153
– Attributable to non-controlling interests 32 36 41
Total comprehensive income 94 91 132
– Attributable to non-controlling interests 25 25 36
Dividends paid and other appropriations made to non-controlling interests (25) (11) (32)
Summary net assets:
Non-current assets 281 299 322
Current assets 432 437 253
Non-current liabilities 73 71 78
Current liabilities 257 284 166
Total equity at the end of the year 383 381 331
– Attributable to non-controlling interests 104 103 90
Net cash generated from operating activities 142 167 164
Net cash generated/(used) in investing activities 7 (51) (46)
Net cash used in financing activities (76) (41) (147)
Differences on exchange (4) 1 4
Increase/(decrease) in net cash and cash equivalents 69 76 (25)
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 52 (24) 1
Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 121 52 (24)
Subsidiaries subject to restrictions:
As a result of the Group’s Canadian subsidiary, Imperial Tobacco Canada (ITCAN), entering CCAA protection, the assets of ITCAN
are subject to restrictions. For further information refer to note 24 and 31. The table below summarises the assets and liabilities of ITCAN:
2024 2023
Summarised financial information £m £m
Non-current assets 3,946 2,471
Current assets 2,904 2,621
Non-current liabilities (3,814) (103)
Current liabilities (2,811) (494)
225 4,495
366
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Under the terms of CCAA, the court has appointed FTI Consulting Canada Inc. to act as a monitor. This monitor has no operational input
and is not involved in the management of the business. The Group considers that ITCAN continues to meet the requirements of IFRS 10
Consolidated Financial Statements, and, until such requirements are not met, the Group will continue to consolidate the results of ITCAN.
Whilst the Group continues to control the operations of its Canadian subsidiary, there are restrictions over the ability to access or use
certain assets including the ability to remit dividends. Included in non-current assets for 2024 and 2023 is goodwill of £2.2 billion subject
to impairment reviews (note 12) and deferred tax assets of £1.7 billion. Included in non-current liabilities is the Proposed Plans provision of
£3,747 million recognised in 2024 and explained in note 24. Included in current liabilities is the Proposed Plans provision of £2,456 million
and trade and other payables of £341 million (2023: £333 million), the majority of which are amounts payable in respect of duties and excise
and accrued charges. A breakdown of current assets has been provided below.
2024 2023
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents* 2,249 2,042
Inventory 120 103
Investments held at fair value 437 446
Other 98 30
2,904 2,621
Note:
* Cash and cash equivalents above include £2,072 million (2023: £1,904 million) of restricted cash and cash equivalents. The Group defines restricted cash and cash equivalents as where
there are significant restrictions on its ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of the Group, but excludes cash and cash equivalents where there are also outstanding
local currency borrowings or where there is an outstanding excise liability. In addition, dividends payable would also be excluded from restricted cash and cash equivalents if the dividend
has been approved by the necessary regulatory channels.
Refer to note 31 for information on the Québec Class Actions.
33 Sustainability costs
2024 2023 2022
Notes £m £m £m
Sustainability expenditures
Recycling/waste costs 66 27
Renewable energy attribute certificates 2 2
Severe weather events and other natural conditions 10 9
Sustainability costs - expenses to the income statement* 78 38 —
Sustainability costs expenditures 30 34 27
Sustainability costs - capital expenditures 13(a) 30 34 27
Note:
* No meaningful comparative numbers are available for the sustainability costs to the income statement for the year 2022.
Recycling/waste costs
We incur recycling costs in relation to our Take-Back schemes as well as waste collection costs mandated by Extended Producer
Responsibility (EPR) schemes and similar schemes. EPR schemes are where the producer’s responsibility for a product is extended
to the post-consumer stage of a product’s life cycle. In 2024, these costs amounts to £66 million (2023: £27 million).
Renewable energy attribute certificates
We purchase renewable energy and associated renewable energy attribute certificates. The costs of these certificates are £2 million
(2023: £2 million). Most of the certificates are purchased at the same time as the electricity and therefore the costs are booked as an
expense to the income statement.
Severe weather events and other natural conditions
In 2024, a severe weather event damaged machinery equipment. The impact of the impairment and repair costs in relation to these
machines is £11 million. This is partially offset by a reversal of prior year write-offs of £1 million as some of the inventory was salvaged.
In 2023, a severe weather event caused the destruction of a stock of tobacco leaves in a warehouse. The impact of the write-off of this
inventory was £9 million.
Sustainability capital expenditures
The sustainability capital expenditures mentioned above are investments directed towards equipment to drive energy efficiency and
renewable energy generation, water recycling and efficiency projects, waste reduction, and product innovation-led specification
improvements to drive recyclability.
367
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
34 Summarised financial information
The following summarised financial information is required by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and has been
prepared as a requirement of the Regulation S-X 3-10 in respect of the guarantees of:
–US$6.89 billion of outstanding bonds issued by B.A.T Capital Corporation (BATCAP) in connection with the acquisition of Reynolds
American Inc. (Reynolds American), including registered bonds issued in exchange for the initially issued bonds (the 2017 Bonds);
–US$10.12 billion of outstanding bonds issued by BATCAP pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement on Form F-3 filed on July 17, 2019,
and US$6.3 billion of outstanding bonds issued by BATCAP pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement on Form F-3 filed on July 1,
2022 pursuant to which BATCAP, BATIF or the Company may issue an indefinite amount of debt securities; and
–US$2.50 billion of outstanding bonds issued by BATIF pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement on Form F-3 filed on July 17, 2019,
and US$1 billion of outstanding bonds issued by BATIF pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement on Form F-3 filed on July 1, 2022
pursuant to which BATCAP, BATIF or the Company may issue an indefinite amount of debt securities.
As of July 28, 2020, all relevant Group entities suspended their reporting obligations with respect to the US$6.7 billion (2023: US$6.7 billion)
of Reynolds American unsecured notes and US$22.1 million (2023: US$22.1 million) of Lorillard unsecured notes. As such, no summarised
financial information is provided with respect to these securities.
As described below, Reynolds American is a subsidiary guarantor of all outstanding series of BATCAP and BATIF bonds. Under the terms
of the indentures governing such notes, any subsidiary guarantor (including Reynolds American) other than BATCAP or BATIF, as
applicable, BATNF and BATHTN, will automatically and unconditionally be released from all obligations under its guarantee, and such
guarantee shall thereupon terminate and be discharged and of no further force or effect, in the event that (1) its guarantee of all then
outstanding notes issued under the Group’s EMTN Programme is released or (2) at substantially the same time its guarantee of the debt
securities is terminated, such subsidiary guarantor is released from all obligations in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money for
which such subsidiary guarantor is an obligor (as a guarantor or borrower). Under the EMTN Programme, Reynolds American’s guarantee
is released if at any time the aggregate amount of indebtedness for borrowed money, subject to certain exceptions, for which Reynolds
American is an obligor does not exceed 10% of the outstanding long-term debt of BAT as reflected in the balance sheet included in BAT’s
most recent publicly released interim or annual consolidated financial statements.
Reynolds American’s guarantee may be released notwithstanding Reynolds American guaranteeing other indebtedness, provided
Reynolds American’s guarantee of outstanding notes issued under the EMTN Programme is released. If Reynolds American’s guarantee
is released, BAT is not required to replace such guarantee, and the debt securities will have the benefit of fewer subsidiary guarantees for
the remaining maturity of the debt securities.
Note:
The following summarised financial information report the unconsolidated contribution of each applicable company to the Group’s consolidated results and not the separate financial
statements for each applicable company as local financial statements are prepared in accordance with local legislative requirements and may differ from the financial information provided
below. In particular, in respect of the U.S. region, all financial statements and financial information provided by or with respect to the U.S. business or RAI (and/or RAI and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the Reynolds Group)) are prepared on the basis of U.S. GAAP and constitute the primary financial statements or financial information of the U.S. business or RAI (and/or the
Reynolds Group). Solely for the purpose of consolidation within the results of BAT p.l.c. and the BAT Group, this financial information is then converted to IFRS. To the extent any such
financial information provided in these financial statements relates to the U.S. business or RAI (and/or the Reynolds Group), it is provided as an explanation of the U.S. business’s or RAI’s
(and/or the Reynolds Group’s) primary U.S. GAAP based financial statements and information.
368
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The subsidiaries disclosed below are wholly-owned and the guarantees provided are full and unconditional, and joint and several:
a.British American Tobacco p.l.c. (as the parent guarantor), referred to as ‘BAT p.l.c.’ in the financials below;
b.B.A.T Capital Corporation (as an issuer or a subsidiary guarantor, as the case may be), referred to as ‘BATCAP’ in the financials below;
c.B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c. (as an issuer or a subsidiary guarantor, as the case may be), referred to as ‘BATIF’ in the financials
below;
d.B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V. (as a subsidiary guarantor), referred to as ‘BATNF’ in the financials below;
e.Reynolds American Inc. (as a subsidiary guarantor), referred to as ‘RAI’ in the financials below; and
f.British American Tobacco Holdings (The Netherlands) B.V. (as a subsidiary guarantor of the 2017 Bonds only), referred to as ‘BATHTN’
in the financials below.
In accordance with Regulation S-X 13-01, information in respect of investments in subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors has
been excluded from non-current assets as shown in the balance sheet table below. The ‘BATHTN’ column in the summarised financial
information is only applicable in the context of the 2017 Bonds. British American Tobacco Holdings (The Netherlands) B.V. (BATHTN)
is not an issuer nor guarantor of any of the other securities referenced in this note. None of the issuers or other guarantors has material
balances with or an investment in BATHTN. Investments in subsidiaries represents share capital acquired in relation to or issued by
subsidiary undertakings.
Summarised Financial Information
BAT p.l.c. BATCAP BATIF BATNF RAI BATHTN
Year ended 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Income Statement
Revenue — — — — — —
(Loss)/profit from operations (149) (9) (20) — — 1
Dividend income 6,477 — — — 5,263 185
Net finance income/(costs) 501 (81) 1,062 1 (496) (34)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 6,829 (90) 1,042 1 4,767 152
Taxation on ordinary activities (9) (9) (5) — 111 (89)
Profit/(loss) for the year 6,820 (99) 1,037 1 4,878 63
Intercompany Transactions – Income Statement
Transactions with non-issuer/non-guarantor subsidiaries
(expense)/income (152) (9) (17) — 31 (1)
Transactions with non-issuer/non-guarantor subsidiaries net
finance income 316 563 1,234 — 24 —
Dividend income from non-issuer/non-guarantor subsidiaries 6,477 — — — 5,263 185
Summarised Financial Information
BAT p.l.c. BATCAP BATIF BATNF RAI BATHTN
Year ended 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Income Statement
Revenue — — — — — —
(Loss)/profit from operations (642) 3 4 — — 5
Dividend income 4,950 — 1 — 5,234 424
Net finance income/(costs) 488 (204) 857 1 (538) —
Profit/(loss) before taxation 4,796 (201) 862 1 4,696 429
Taxation on ordinary activities (25) 22 17 — 127 (1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 4,771 (179) 879 1 4,823 428
Intercompany Transactions – Income Statement
Transactions with non-issuer/non-guarantor subsidiaries
(expense)/income (120) (1) — — 30 —
Transactions with non-issuer/non-guarantor subsidiaries net
finance income 293 768 1,445 — 26 —
Dividend income from non-issuer/non-guarantor subsidiaries 4,950 — — — 5,234 424
369
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Notes on Accounts
Continued
Summarised Financial Information
BAT p.l.c. BATCAP BATIF BATNF RAI BATHTN
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance Sheet
Non-current assets 1,917 18,996 2,292 1,358 292 77
Current assets 9,736 18,504 46,197 48 1,221 15
Non-current liabilities 1,577 18,503 11,526 1,358 7,707 20
Non-current borrowings 1,571 18,257 11,227 1,358 7,657 —
Other non-current liabilities 6 246 299 — 50 20
Current liabilities 72 19,010 32,984 47 3,257 129
Current borrowings 37 18,967 32,708 46 1,751 1
Other current liabilities 35 43 276 1 1,506 128
Intercompany Transactions – Balance Sheet
Amounts due from non-issuer/non-guarantor
subsidiaries 9,690 15,082 50,595 — 1,478 15
Amounts due to non-issuer/non-guarantor
subsidiaries 2 3,942 32,707 — 2 1
Investment in subsidiaries (that are not issuers
or guarantors) 27,234 — 718 — 25,659 1,466
Summarised Financial Information
BAT p.l.c. BATCAP BATIF BATNF RAI BATHTN
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance Sheet
Non-current assets 1,917 20,691 2,238 1,422 318 43
Current assets 9,128 12,739 43,431 790 942 10
Non-current liabilities 1,580 18,266 12,901 1,422 9,163 11
Non-current borrowings 1,571 18,101 12,662 1,422 9,113 —
Other non-current liabilities 9 165 239 — 50 11
Current liabilities 339 15,137 30,091 789 1,301 4
Current borrowings 39 15,102 29,512 788 597 2
Other current liabilities 300 35 579 1 704 2
Intercompany Transactions - Balance Sheet
Amounts due from non-issuer/non-guarantor
subsidiaries 9,074 16,837 43,279 — 1,229 10
Amounts due to non-issuer/non-guarantor
subsidiaries — 3,735 25,686 — 18 1
Investment in subsidiaries (that are not issuers
or guarantors) 27,234 — 718 — 25,185 1,537
Perpetual hybrid bonds
BAT p.l.c. has issued two €1 billion of perpetual hybrid bonds which have been classified as equity as there is no contractual obligation
to either repay the principal or make payments of interest (note 22(d)).
BAT p.l.c.’s unconsolidated contribution to the Group’s consolidated equity results is shown below:
BAT p.l.c.
2024 2023
As at 31 December £m £m
Total equity 37,238 36,360
Share capital 585 614
Share premium 121 112
Perpetual hybrid bonds 1,685 1,685
Other equity 34,848 33,949
370
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Companies and Undertakings
This disclosure is made in accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies and
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, as amended by The Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2015. A full list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures and joint operations as defined by IFRS (showing
the country of incorporation, effective percentage of equity shares held and full registered office addresses) as at 31 December 2024
is disclosed below.
The subsidiary undertakings that are held directly by British American Tobacco p.l.c. (the ultimate Parent Company) are indicated thus *;
all others are held by sub-holding companies.
Unless otherwise stated, the equity shares held are in the form of ordinary shares or common stock, except for those indicated thus #,
which include preference shares. The effective percentage of equity shares held in subsidiary undertakings is 100% unless otherwise
stated. Further, where the effective percentage of equity shares held by the sub-holding company is different from that held by British
American Tobacco p.l.c., the percentage of equity shares held by British American Tobacco p.l.c. is indicated thus ^ and is shown after
the percentage interest held by the sub-holding company.
The results of a number of these subsidiary undertakings principally affect the financial statements of the Group. These principal
subsidiary undertakings are highlighted in grey and are considered to be the main corporate entities in those countries which,
in aggregate, contributed 91% of the Group revenue in 2024.
Subsidiary Undertaking Barbados
Albania Chancery Chambers, Chancery House, High Street, Bridgetown,
Barbados
Rruga e Kavajes, Ish Kombinati Ushqimor, Tirana, Albania
Southward Insurance Ltd.
British American Tobacco - Albania SH.P.K.
Belgium
Algeria
Nieuwe Gentsesteenweg 21, 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden, Belgium
Zone d’activité El Omran, Route de Ouled Fayet, Ilot 789- Lot 04,
Cheraga, Alger, Algeria British American Tobacco Belgium N.V.
British American Tobacco (Algérie) S.P.A. (51%)4 Benin
Angola Ilot: 202, Quartier: Sèdjro St Michel, Parcelle: D, Maison: COMTEL
IMMEUBLE
Viana Park, Polo Industrial, Viana, Luanda, Angola
British American Tobacco Benin SA (In Liquidation)
British American Tobacco - B.A.T. Angola, Limitada
(99.80%)(99.93%)^ Bolivia
Sociedade Industrial Tabacos Angola LDA (71.60%) Av. Ballivián entre calles 11 y 12 No. 555, Edificio El Dorial, Piso 19,
Sociedade Unificada Tabacos Angola LDA (62.67%) Oficina E, zona de Calacoto, La Paz, Bolivia
Argentina BAT Bolivia S.R.L.
Bosnia and Herzegovina
San Martín 140, Floor 14, City of Buenos Aires, C1004AAD,
Argentina Fra Dominka Mandića 24A, 88220 Široki Brijeg, Bosnia and
BAT Operaciones S.A.U. Herzegovina
British American Tobacco Argentina S.A.I.C.y F. (99.43%) IPRESS d.o.o.
Australia Ul. Fra Andela Zvizdovica 1, 71000 Sarajevo-Novo Sarajevo, Bosnia
and Herzegovina
Level 25, 210 George Street, Sydney, NSW 2000
TDR d.o.o. Sarajevo
BAT Australasia Ltd
ul. Kolodvorska 12, 71000 Sarajevo-Novo Sarajevo, Bosnia and
BAT Australia Ltd
Herzegovina
BAT Australia Overseas Pty Ltd
iNovine BH d.o.o.
BAT Australia Services Ltd
Botswana
BAT South Pty Ltd
Plot 2482B, Tshekidi Crescent, Extension 9, Gabarone, Botswana
Rothmans Asia Pacific Limited#
British American Tobacco Botswana (Pty) Limited
The Benson & Hedges Company Pty. Limited
Brazil
W.D. & H.O. Wills Holdings Limited
Avenida República do Chile, nº 330, Bloco 1, salas 3001, 3101, 3201,
Austria
3301 e 3402, 30º andar, Centro, Rio de Janeiro/RJ - CEP
Dr.-Karl-Lueger-Platz 5/Top 7, 1010, Wien, Austria 20.031-170, Brazil
British American Tobacco (Austria) GmbH Souza Cruz LTDA
Bahrain Avenida República do Chile, nº 330, Bloco 1, Torre Leste, 30º
andar, Centro, Rio de Janeiro/RJ - CEP 20.031-170, Brazil
Flat 2115, Building 2504, Road 2832, Block 428 Al Seef Area,
Kingdom of Bahrain Instituto Souza Cruz11
British American Tobacco Middle East W.L.L. Avenida República do Chile, 330, Bl. I, Salas 3001 a 3301, parte,
Torre leste, Centro, Zip Code 20031170, Rio de Janeiro/ RJ, Brazil
Bangladesh
Yolanda Participacoes S.A.
New DOHS Road, Mohakhali, Dhaka 1206, Bangladesh
British American Tobacco Bangladesh Company Limited (72.91%)
371
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Companies and Undertakings
Continued
Subsidiary Undertaking continued Colombia
Bulgaria Avenida Cra. 72 # 80-94 Piso 10. Bogotá, Colombia
115 M, Tsarigradsko Shose Blvd., Building D, Floor 5, Sofia, British American Tobacco Colombia S.A.S.
Mladost Municipality, 1784, Bulgaria Congo (Democratic Republic of)
British American Tobacco Trading EOOD 1er étage, Immeuble du Centenaire, Gombe, Kinshasa,
Cambodia Democratic Republic of Congo
Unit 2F-03, 2nd Floor of the Central Car Park Building, No. 64, British American Tobacco Congo SARL (In Liquidation)
Preah Monivong Boulevard (Street 93), Village 1, Sangkat Wat 1st floor Immeuble L’horizon sis avenue Colonel Lukusa n°50,
Phnom, Khan Daun Penh, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Gombe, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo
British American Tobacco (Cambodia) Limited (71%) British American Tobacco Import SARL
Cameroon British American Tobacco Services Congo SARL
BP 259 Douala 620, Rue du Gouverneur Carras (1064), Immeubles Costa Rica
Grassfield 9ème Etage, Douala- Bonanjo
325 Metros este del Puente de la Firestone, Llorente, Flores,
British American Tobacco Cameroun S.A. (99.86%) Heredia, Costa Rica
Canada BASS Americas S.A.
30 Pedigree Court, Brampton, Ontario, L6T 5T8, Canada BATCCA Park Inversiones Immobiliarias, S.A.
Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited BATCCA Servicios S.A.
Imperial Tobacco Company Limited Croatia
3711 St-Antoine West, Montreal, Québec, H4C 3P6, Canada 16, Avenija Dubrovnik, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Allan Ramsay and Company Limited BAT HRVATSKA d.o.o. u likvidaciji (In Liquidation)
Cameo Inc. Draškovićeva 27, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Genstar Corporation# 2 iNovine d.d. (93.42%)
Imperial Brands Limited Obala V. Nazora 1, 52210 Rovinj, Croatia
Imperial Tobacco Products Limited TDR d.o.o.
Imperial Tobacco Services Inc. Osječka 2, 33000 Virovitica, Croatia
John Player & Sons Ltd Hrvatski Duhani d.d.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company of Canada Limited (70%) (50%)^3 Cuba
Marlboro Canada Limited Parcela nº 2 a noroeste do terminal de contêineres de Mariel, a
Medaillon Inc. 2,2 km do vértice nº 4, Município de Mariel, Província de
Artemisa, Republic of Cuba
Suite 1500, 45 O'Connor Street, Suite 1500, Ottawa, Ontario, K1P
1A4, Canada Brascuba Cigarrillos S.A. (50%)
2004969 Ontario Inc. Cyprus
Cayman Islands 8 Stasinou Avenue, Photiades Business Centre, 5th Floor, Nicosia,
CY-1060, Cyprus
Trident Trust Company (Cayman) Ltd., One Capital Place, PO Box
847, Grand Cayman KY1-1103, Cayman Islands B.A.T (Cyprus) Limited
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco (CI), Co. Rothmans (Middle East) Limited
Chile Czech Republic
Avenida Isidora Goyenechea 3000, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Karolinská 654/2, Prague 8 – Karlín, 186 00, Czech Republic
British American Tobacco Chile Operaciones S.A. (99.51%) British American Tobacco (Czech Republic), s.r.o.
Avenida Suiza 244, Cerrillos, Santiago, Chile Denmark
BAT Chile S.A. Bernstorffsgade 50, 1577 Copenhagen, Denmark
China British American Tobacco Denmark A/S (House of Prince A/S)
Room 3101, Tower A, Gemdale Viseen Tower, No. 16, Gaoxin Precis (1789) Denmark A/S
South 10th Road, High-tech Park, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Djibouti
People's Republic of China
Rue de Magadiscio, Lot No. 133, Djibouti City, Djibouti
Nicoventures Technical (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd.
British American Tobacco Djibouti SARL
Room 436, No. 1000, Zhenchen Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai,
People's Republic of China
British American (Shanghai) Enterprise Development Co., Ltd
British American Nico Business Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd
Unit 1001 in 901, 9/F, Building 3, No.8 Guanghuadongli, Chaoyang
District Beijing, People’s Republic of China
British American Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd8
372
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Egypt Hong Kong
1017 Korniche El Nil, El Malek El Saleh, Old Cairo, Cairo, Egypt 11/F, One Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, China
BETCO for General Services and Marketing LLC British American Tobacco China Investments Limited
BETCO for Trade and Distribution LLC Lehman, Lee & XU Corporate Services, Suite 3313, Tower One, Times
British American Tobacco Egypt LLC Square, 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong, China
British American Tobacco North Africa LLC (In Liquidation) Reynolds Asia-Pacific Limited
Eritrea Level 24, Six Pacific Place, 50 Queen's Road East, Wanchai, Hong
Kong, China
P.O. Box 749, 62 Fel Ket Street, Asmara, Eritrea
BAT Global Travel Retail Limited
British American Tobacco (Eritrea) Share Company#
Level 30, 3 Pacific Place, 1 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong
Estonia
Kong, China
Tornimäe 7-10, 10145 Tallinn, Estonia Nicoventures Business Consulting (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.
British American Tobacco Estonia AS 24/F., Six Pacific Place, 50 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong
Fiji British American Tobacco Asia-Pacific Region Limited
Lady Maraia Road, Nabua, Suva, Fiji British-American Tobacco Company (Hong Kong) Limited
Central Manufacturing Company Pte Limited Hungary
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Fiji) Pte Limited HU 1117 Budapest, Alíz utca 3. 6. floor
Finland BAT Pécsi Dohánygyár Korlátolt Felelosségu Társaság
Eteläesplanadi 2 00130 Helsinki, Finland
Indonesia
British American Tobacco Finland Oy Capital Place Office Tower 6th Floor, Jl. Gatot Subroto Kav. 18
France Jakarta Selatan 12710
111 Avenue Victor Hugo, 75016 Paris, France PT Bentoel Internasional Investama (99.96%)
Carreras France SAS
JI. Raya Karanglo, 1st Floor, Desa Banjararum, Kecamatan
Tour Légende, 20 place de la Défense, CS 80289, 92050 Paris La Singosari, Jawa Timur 65153, Indonesia
Défense Cedex, France PT Bentoel Prima (99.99%)(99.96%)^4
British American Tobacco France SAS
Jl. Susanto No. 2B, Ciptomulyo, Sukun, Malang, Jawa Timur
Germany 65148, Indonesia
Alsterufer 4, 20354 Hamburg, Germany PT Bentoel Distribusi Utama (100%) (99.96%) ^
BATIG Gesellschaft fur Beteiligungen m.b.H. Iraq
British American Tobacco (Germany) GmbH Empire Business Tower, Building C5, 2nd floor, Erbil, Kurdistan
British American Tobacco (Industrie) GmbH Region of Iraq
Schutterwälder Straße. 23, 01458 Ottendorf-Okrilla, Germany B.A.T. Iraqia Company for Tobacco Trading Limited
Quantus Beteiligungs-und Beratungsgesellschaft mbH i.L (In Ireland
Liquidation) Suite D, 2nd Floor, The Apex Building, Blackthorn Road, Sandyford
Ghana Industrial Estate, Dublin 18, Republic of Ireland
4th Floor, Volta Place, Airport Residential Area, Patrice Lumumba Carroll Group Distributors Limited
Street, Accra, Ghana
P.J. Carroll & Company Limited
British American Tobacco Ghana Limited (97.09%) Rothmans of Pall Mall (Ireland) Limited#5
Greece
Isle of Man
27, Ag. Thoma Street, Maroussi, 151 24, Greece 2nd Floor, St Mary’s Court, 20 Hill Street, Douglas, IM1 1EU,
British American Tobacco Hellas S.A. Isle of Man
Guernsey Abbey Investment Company Limited
P.O. Box 155, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, GY1 4ET, The Raleigh Investment Company Limited
Guernsey
Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited
Belaire Insurance Company Limited
Italy
Guyana
Località Bagnoli della Rosandra, snc, 34018 San Dorligo della Valle
Lot 122 Parade Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana (TS), 34018, Italy
Demerara Tobacco Company Limited (70.25%) BAT Trieste S.p.A.
Honduras Viale Giorgio Ribotta 35, 00144 Rome, Italy
Boulevard del Sur, Zona El Cacao,Depart. San Pedro Sula, de British American Tobacco Italia S.p.A.
Cortés, Honduras
Tabacalera Hondureña S.A. (83.64%)
373
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Companies and Undertakings
Continued
Subsidiary Undertaking continued Lithuania
Ivory Coast J. Galvydžio g. 11-7, LT-08236 Vilnius, Lithuania
Rue des Jardins -Immeuble Sayegh-Mezzanine, Abidjan, Cocody UAB British American Tobacco Lietuva
2 plateaux, Côte d'Ivoire
Luxembourg
British American Tobacco RCI SARL 1, Rue Jean Piret, 2350 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
Jamaica British American Tobacco Brands (Switzerland) Limited
13A Ripon Road, Kingston 5, Jamaica Malawi
Sans Souci Development Limited (100%) (50.40%)
Northgate Arcade Complex, Masauko Chipembere Highway,
(In Liquidation)^13 Blantyre, Malawi
Sans Souci Limited (100%) (50.40%) (In Liquidation)^13 British American Tobacco (Malawi) Limited
8 Automotive Parkway, Kingston 20, Jamaica Malaysia
Carreras Limited (50.40%) 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim,
Japan Seksyen 13, 46200, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Midtown Tower 20F, 9-7-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan British American Tobacco GSD (Kuala Lumpur) Sdn Bhd
British American Tobacco Japan, Ltd.10 Level 11, Sunway Geo Tower, Jalan Lagoon Selatan, Sunway
South Quay, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor
Jersey
Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey
BAT Aspac Service Centre Sdn Bhd
Pathway 5 (Jersey) Limited
Level 19, Guoco Tower, Damansara City, No. 6 Jalan Damanlela,
Jordan Bukit Damansara, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Airport Road, Al Qastal Industrial Area, Air Cargo Road, Amman, British American Tobacco (Malaysia) Berhad (50%)
Jordan British American Tobacco Malaysia Foundation11
British American Tobacco – Jordan Private Shareholding Commercial Marketers and Distributors Sdn. Bhd. (100%) (50%)^
Company Limited
Tobacco Importers and Manufacturers Sdn. Bhd. (100%)(50%) ^
Kazakhstan
Mali
Republic of Kazakhstan, ZIP Code A25T6M9, the City of Almaty,
Medeu District, 47 Kabanbay batyr street Hamdallaye ACI 2000, Immeuble Atlantique Assurances,
Bamako, MALI, B.P E 3633, Mali
British American Tobacco Kazakhstan Trading LLP1
British American Tobacco (Mali) Sarl
Kenya
Malta
8 Likoni Road, Industrial Area, P.O. Box 30000-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
PM Building, Level 2, Bone Street, Zone 1, Central Business
BAT Kenya Tobacco Company Limited (100%) (60%)^ District, Birkirkara, CBD 1060, Malta
British American Tobacco Area Limited British American Tobacco (Malta) Limited
British American Tobacco Kenya plc (60%) Central Cigarette Company Limited
Korea, Republic of Rothmans of Pall Mall (Malta) Limited
141, Gongdan 1-ro, Sanam-myeon, Sacheon-si, Gyeongsangnam- Mexico
do, Republic of Korea
Avenida Francisco I Madero 2750 Poniente, Colonia Centro,
British American Tobacco Korea Manufacturing Limited Monterrey, Nuevo León, C.P. 64000, Mexico
21st FL. West Tower, Mirae Asset CENTER1, 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, British American Tobacco Mexico Comercial, S.A. de C.V.
Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea, republic of
British American Tobacco Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
British American Tobacco Korea Limited
Cigarrera La Moderna, S.A. de C.V.
Kosovo, Republic of
Constitucion 411, piso 22, 23 y 24, Colonia Centro, Monterrey,
Llapllaselle p.n., 10500 Gracanicë, Kosovo, republic of Nuevo Leon, C.P. 64000, Mexico
British American Tobacco Kosovo SH.P.K. BAT DBS Mexico S.A De C.V.4
Kuwait Predio Los Sauces Sin número, Colonia Los Sauces, C.P. 63197,
Unit 21, 35th Floor, Al Hamra Tower, Al Shuhada St. Kuwait City, Kuwait Tepic, Nayarit, Mexico
Procesadora de Tabacos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (93%)
BAT Kuwait for Wholesale and Retail Trading Company (S.P.C)
Rio Missouri 555, Colonia del Valle, San Pedro Garza García,
Latvia
Nuevo León, C.P. 66220, Mexico
Mukasalas iela 101, Riga LW-1004, Latvia British American Tobacco Servicios S.A. de C.V.
British American Tobacco Latvia SIA Mozambique
Lesotho 2289 Avenida de Angola, Maputo, Mozambique
Mohokare Industrial Estate, Florida Area Extention, Ha Hoohle, British American Tobacco Mozambique Limitada (95%)
Maseru, 100, Lesotho
British American Tobacco Lesotho (Pty) Ltd
374
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Namibia Pakistan
Shop 48, Second Floor Old Power Station Complex, Armstrong Building 4, Packages Mall Office Complex, Packages Mall,
Street, Windhoek, Namibia Shahrah-e-Roomi, Lahore
British American Tobacco Namibia (Pty) Limited Pakistan Tobacco Company Limited (94.65%)
Netherlands Bun Khurma Chichian Road, Mirpur Azad Jammu & Kashmir, Pakistan
Handelsweg 53 A, 1181 ZA, Amstelveen, Netherlands British American Tobacco SAA Services (Private) Limited
Aruba Properties B.V. Serena Business Complex. Khayaban-e-Suhrwardy, Islamabad,
Pakistan
B.A.T. Nederland B.V.
Phoenix (Private) Limited (100%) (94.65%)^
B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V.
British American Tobacco European Operations Centre B.V. Panama
British American Tobacco Exports B.V. Calle 54, Obarrio, PH Twist Tower, Piso 22, Oficina E-22,
Corregimiento Bella Vista, Ciudad de Panamá, Panama
British American Tobacco Holdings (Australia) B.V.
British American Tobacco Central America S.A. (87.65%)
British American Tobacco Holdings (Malaysia) B.V.
British American Tobacco Panama S.A.
British American Tobacco Holdings (South Africa) B.V.
Tabacalera Istmeña S.A.
British American Tobacco Holdings (The Netherlands) B.V.
British American Tobacco Holdings (Venezuela) B.V. Vía Fernández de Córdoba, Corregimiento of Pueblo Nuevo,
Panama City, Panama
British American Tobacco Holdings (Vietnam) B.V.
BAT Caribbean, S.A.
British American Tobacco International (Holdings) B.V.
Papua New Guinea
Molensteegh Invest B.V.
Ashurst Png, Level 11 Mrdc Haus, Cnr Of Musgrave Street And
Precis (1790) B.V.
Champion Parade, Port Moresby, National Capital District, Papua
Rothmans Far East B.V. New Guinea
Rothmans International Holdings B.V. British American Tobacco (PNG) Limited
Rothmans Tobacco Investments B.V. Rothmans of Pall Mall (P.N.G.) Limited
Rothmans UK Holdings B.V.
Paraguay
New Zealand
Roque Centurion Miranda 1635, AYMAC II, Piso 2, Asunción, Paraguay
2 Watt Street, Parnell, Auckland, 1052, New Zealand British American Tobacco Productora de Cigarrillos S.A.
BAT (New Zealand) Limited
Peru
BAT Holdings (New Zealand) Limited
Av. El Derby N° 055, Torre 3, Oficinas 405-406-407-408, Urb.
Mint Advisory Limited, Suite 6, 8 Turua Street, St Heliers, Lima Polo and Hunt Club, Santiago de Surco, Lima, Peru
Auckland, 1071, New Zealand British American Tobacco del Peru Holdings S.A. (98.55%)#6
New Zealand (UK Finance) Limited#
British American Tobacco del Peru, S.A.C.
Nigeria
Poland
No. 1 Tobacco Road, Oluyole Toll Gate, Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria
Aleja Wojska Polskiego 23c, 63-500, Ostrzeszow, Poland
British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited
CHIC sp. z o.o
No 2, Olumegbon Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria
ESMOKING LIQUIDS SP. Z O.O
British American Tobacco Marketing Nigeria Limited
Krakowiakow 48, 02-255, Warszawa, Poland
British American Tobacco Nigeria Foundation11
British American Tobacco Polska Trading sp. zo.o.
North Macedonia, Republic of
Puławska 180, 02-670, Warszawa, Poland
Blvd. 8-mi SEPTEMVRI No. 18, 1000 Skopje, Republic of North
BAT DBS Poland sp. Z.o.o.
Macedonia
Rubiez 46, 61-612, Poznan, Poland
TDR SKOPJE DOOEL Skopje
eSMOKING INSTITUTE sp. z o.o.
Norway
ul. IŁŻECKA 26E, 02-135WARSZAWA, Poland
Dronning Eufemias gate 42. 0191 Oslo, Norway
Nicoventures Poland sp. Z.o.o. (In Liquidation)
British American Tobacco Norway AS
Ul. Tytoniowa 16, 16-300, Augustow, Poland
British-American Tobacco Polska S.A.
Portugal
Edificio Amoreiras Square, Rua Carlos Alberto da Mota Pinto 17,
3e A, 1070-313, Amoreiras, Lisboa, Portugal
COTAPO Empreendimentos Commerciais e Industriais S.A.
Sociedade Unificada de Tabacos Limitada (76.40%)
375
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Companies and Undertakings
Continued
Subsidiary Undertaking continued Singapore
Qatar 8 Marina Boulevard, #10-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 1,
61 Al Dafna, 814 Balmasan St. 8th floor – AL Fardan Office Tower, Singapore 018981
Office No 12, Doha, Qatar British American Tobacco Sales & Marketing Singapore Pte. Ltd.
BAT Gulf for Trading LLC British-American Tobacco Marketing (Singapore) Private Limited
P.O. Box 6689, 41 Floor, Tornado Tower, West Bay, Doha, Qatar 15 Senoko Loop, 758168, Singapore
British American Tobacco Q LLC British-American Tobacco (Singapore) Private Limited
Réunion Shenton Way, #33-00 OUE Downtown, 068809, Singapore
5, Immeuble Cap, Avenue Théodore Drouhet, ZAC Horizon 2000, RHL Investments Pte Limited# (In Liquidation)
Le Port, 97420, IIe de la Réunion Solomon Islands
B.A.T. La Réunion SAS Kukum Highway, Ranadi, Honiara, Honiara, Solomon Islands
Romania Solomon Islands Tobacco Company Limited
44 Srg. Nutu Ion Street, One Cotroceni Park Building, floor 6-9 South Africa
(entrance C), District 5, Bucharest, Romania
Waterway House South, 3 Dock Road, V&A Waterfront, Cape
British American Shared Services (Europe) S.R.L.
Town, Western Cape 8002, South Africa
44 Srg. Nutu Ion Street, One Cotroceni Park Building, floor 7
American Cigarette Company (Overseas) (Pty) Ltd
(entrance C), District 5, Bucharest, Romania
Benson and Hedges (Pty) Ltd (In Liquidation)
British American GBS Recruitment S.R.L.
British American Tobacco Holdings South Africa (Pty) Ltd#
Bucharest Business Park, Building A (3rd floor) and Building B2
British American Tobacco Properties South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
( floors 3-4), 1A Bucuresti - Ploiesti (DN1) Road, Sector 1,
Bucharest 013681, Romania British American Tobacco Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd
British American Tobacco (Romania) Trading SRL British American Tobacco South Africa (Pty) Ltd
Laboratorului St., no. 17-19, Ploiesti, Prahova County, 100070, British American Tobacco Sub-Saharan Africa (Pty) Ltd
Romania Tobacco Research and Development Institute (Pty) Ltd
British-American Tobacco Romania Investment S.R.L. Twisp (Pty) Ltd
Rwanda Spain
SORAS Building, Boulevard de la Revolution P.O Box 650 Kigali, Edificio Torreo Espacio, Paseo de la Castellana 259-D, 25th floor,
Rwanda Comunidad de Madrid 28046 Madrid, Spain
British American Tobacco Rwanda Limited British American Tobacco España, S.A.
Saint Lucia Sri Lanka
c/o ADCO Incorporated, 10 Manoel Street, Castries, Saint Lucia 178 Srimath Ramanathan Mawatha, Colombo, 15, Sri Lanka
Carisma Marketing Services Ltd Ceylon Tobacco Company Plc (84.13%)
Pointe Seraphine, Castries, Saint Lucia Sudan
Rothmans Holdings (Caricom) Ltd. Byblos Tower, Al-Muk Nemer Street, Postal Code 11111, P.O Box
1381, Khartoum, Sudan
Samoa
Blue Nile Cigarette Company Limited
Vaitele Estate, Vaitele, Samoa
Swaziland
British American Tobacco Company (Samoa) Limited
213 King Mswati III Avenue West, Matsapha Industrial Site,
Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of
Matsapha, Swaziland
Building No:7051 Al Amir Sultan-Al Salamah District, Zahran British American Tobacco Swaziland (Pty) Limited
Business Center 6th Floor, Unit 601. Jeddah 23525 - 2661, Saudi
Arabia Sweden
BAT Arabia for Trading Hyllie Boulevard 32, 215 32 Malmö, Sweden
Building No:7051 Al Amir Sultan-Al Salamah District, Zahran Niconovum AB
Business Center 13th Floor, Unit 1302. Jeddah 23525 - 2661, Saudi Stenåldersgatan 23, 213 76 Malmö, Sweden
Arabia
Fiedler & Lundgren AB
BAT Saudia for Trading
Västra Trädgårdsgatan 15, 11153 Stockholm, Sweden
Building No:7051 Al Amir Sultan-Al Salamah District, Zahran
Business Center 13th Floor, Unit 1303. Jeddah 23525 - 2661, Saudi British American Tobacco Sweden AB
Arabia
Regional HQ of British American Tobacco Middle East - Single
Person Company
Serbia
Kralja Stefana Provenčanog 209, Vranje, 17500, Serbia
British American Tobacco Vranje a.d. Vranje
376
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Switzerland United Kingdom
c/o Bright Law AG, Bundesplatz 9, 6302 Zug, Switzerland 212-218 Upper Newtownards Road, Belfast, BT4 3ET, Northern Ireland
British American Tobacco International Limited (In Liquidation) Murray, Sons & Company, Limited
Route de France 17, 2926 Boncourt, Switzerland 7 More London, Riverside, London, SE1 2RT, United Kingdom
American-Cigarette Company (Overseas) Limited Ryesekks P.L.C. (50%) (In Liquidation)
BAT Switzerland Vending SA Building 7, Chiswick Business Park, 566 Chiswick High Road,
Rothmans of Pall Mall Limited London, W4 5YG, United Kingdom
British American Tobacco Switzerland S.A. 10 Motives Limited
Nicoventures Communications (Switzerland) SA British American Tobacco UK Limited
Tanzania Nicoventures Retail (UK) Limited
Ten Motives Limited (Proposal for strike off)
c/o IMMMA Advocates, Plot 357, United Nations Road, Upanga
Region Dar Es Salaam,11103, Tanzania Globe House, 1 Water Street, London, WC2R 3LA, United Kingdom
BAT Distribution Tanzania Limited Allen & Ginter (UK) Limited
International Cigarette Distributors Limited (99%) (In Liquidation) B.A.T (U.K. and Export) Limited
Plot No 57, Uporoto Street, Ursino Estate, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania B.A.T Cambodia (Investments) Limited
British American Tobacco (Tanzania) Limited (In Liquidation) B.A.T Services Limited
P.O. Box 868, Maruhubi Road, Zanzibar, Zanzibar B.A.T Uzbekistan (Investments) Limited
Zanzibar Distribution Company Limited (99%) (In Liquidation) B.A.T Vietnam Limited
Trinidad and Tobago B.A.T. China Limited
BAT Finance COP Limited
Corner Eastern Main Road and Mt. D’or Road, Champs Fleurs,
Trinidad and Tobago BATIF Dollar Limited
The West Indian Tobacco Company Limited (50.13%) BATUS Limited
Türkiye Big Ben Tobacco Company Limited
Orjin Maslak İş Merkezi, Eski Büyükdere Caddesi No.27, Kat 9-10, British American Shared Services (GSD) Limited
Maslak, Sarıyer, İstanbul, Türkiye British American Shared Services Limited
British American Tobacco Tütün Mamulleri Sanayi ve Ticaret British American Tobacco (AIT) Limited
Anonim Sirketi British American Tobacco (GLP) Limited
Uganda British American Tobacco (Investments) Limited
Plot 16, Mackinnon road, Nakasero. Kampala Uganda, Kampala, British American Tobacco (Philippines) Limited
7100, Uganda
British American Tobacco (South America) Limited
British American Tobacco Uganda Limited (90%) British American Tobacco China Holdings Limited
Ukraine British American Tobacco Exports Limited
13-15 Bolsunovska Str, Kyiv, 01014, Ukraine British American Tobacco Georgia Limited
LLC “British American Tobacco Sales and Marketing Ukraine”1 British American Tobacco Global Travel Retail Limited
21 Nezalezhnosti Str, Chernihiv Oblast, Prylucky, 17502, Ukraine British American Tobacco International Holdings (UK) Limited
PJSC “A/T B.A.T. – Prilucky Tobacco Company” British American Tobacco Investments (Central & Eastern
Europe) Limited
United Arab Emirates
British American Tobacco Korea (Investments) Limited
2302-08, Smart Heights, Al Thanyah First, Dubai, United Arab
British American Tobacco Peru Holdings Limited
Emirates
British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund Trustee Limited13
BAT Middle East For Trading L.L.C.
British-American Tobacco (Mauritius) p.l.c.
Jumeirah Business Centre 3, 37th Floor, Jumeirah Lake Towers,
Carreras Rothmans Limited#
Dubai, P.O. Box 337222, United Arab Emirates
Chelwood Trading & Investment Company Limited
British American Tobacco GCC DMCC
Jumeirah Business Centre 3, 38th Floor, Jumeirah Lake Towers, KBio Holdings Limited
Dubai, P.O. Box 337222, United Arab Emirates Myddleton Investment Company Limited
British American Tobacco ME DMCC Nicovations Limited
Unit # 2680, DMCC Business Center- Level # 1, Jewellery & Nicoventures Holdings Limited
Gemplex 3, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Nicoventures Trading Limited
British American Tobacco International DMCC Powhattan Limited
Ridirectors Limited
Rothmans Exports Limited
Rothmans International Limited
Rothmans International Tobacco (UK) Limited
377
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Companies and Undertakings
Continued
Subsidiary Undertaking continued United States
United Kingdom continued 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Ryservs (1995) Limited B.A.T Capital Corporation
Ryservs (No.3) Limited BATUS Holdings Inc.
The Water Street Collective Limited BATUS Japan, Inc.
Tobacco Exporters International Limited BATUS Retail Services, Inc.
Tobacco Marketing Consultants Limited British American Tobacco (Brands), Inc.
Venezuela Property Company Limited Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc.
Westanley Trading & Investment Company Limited BT DE Investments Inc.
Westminster Tobacco Company Limited BTI 2014 LLC1
Globe House, 4 Temple Place, London, WC2R 2PG, United Kingdom BTomorrow Services Inc.
Amalgamated Tobacco Company Limited Imasco Holdings Group, Inc.
American Cigarette Company (Overseas) Limited Imasco Holdings, Inc.
Ardath Tobacco Company Limited ITL (USA) Limited
B.A.T Additional Retirement Benefit Scheme Trustee Limited Louisville Corporate Services, Inc.
B.A.T Industries p.l.c. Nicoventures U.S. Limited
B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c.* Beni Oral Nicotine LLC1
B.A.T. Operating Finance Limited 3700 Airpark Dr., Owensboro, KY 42301, United States
BAT Finance Australia Ltd KBio Inc.
BAT Finance Brazil Ltd 401 N. Main Street, Winston-Salem, NC 27101, United States
BAT Finance Chile Ltd Conwood Holdings, Inc.
BAT Finance South Africa Ltd EXP Homes, LLC1
BATMark Limited* Lorillard Licensing Company LLC1
BATLaw Limited Lorillard, LLC1
BATS Limited Modoral Brands Inc.
Benson & Hedges (Overseas) Limited Northern Brands International, Inc.
British American Global Shared Services Limited R. J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
British American Tobacco (1998) Limited* R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
British American Tobacco (2009 PCA) Limited R. J. Reynolds Tobacco International, Inc.
British American Tobacco (2009) Limited# R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company
British American Tobacco (2012) Limited R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
British American Tobacco (Brands) Limited R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.
British American Tobacco (Corby) Limited RAI Innovations Company
British American Tobacco (NGP) Limited RAI International, Inc.
British American Tobacco Healthcare Trustee Limited RAI Services Company
British American Tobacco Taiwan Logistics Limited RAI Strategic Holdings, Inc.
British-American Tobacco (Holdings) Limited Reynolds American Inc.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (Export) Limited Reynolds Brands Inc.
Btomorrow Ventures Limited Reynolds Marketing Services Company
Carreras Limited Reynolds Technologies, Inc.
Courtleigh of London Limited RJR Realty Relocation Services, Inc.
Dunhill Tobacco of London Limited RJR Vapor Co., LLC1
John Sinclair Limited Rosswil LLC1
Louisville Securities Limited S.F. Imports, Inc.
Moorgate Tobacco Co. Limited Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.
Peter Jackson (Overseas) Limited Spot You More, Inc.
Precis (1789) Limited The Water Street Collective LLC1
Precis (1814) Limited# Vuse Stores LLC1
Rothmans International Enterprises Limited 4583 Guthrie Highway, Clarksville, TN 37040, United States
Rothmans of Pall Mall Limited American Snuff Company, LLC1
Senior Service (Overseas) Limited CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive,
The London Tobacco Company Limited Suite 150N, Sacramento CA 95833-3505, United States
Weston (2009) Limited Genstar Pacific Corporation
Weston Investment Company Limited# Farmers Bank Building, Suite 1402, 301 N. Market Street,
Wilmington, DE 19801, United States
Reynolds Finance Company
378
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Uruguay Associated Undertakings and Joint Ventures
Juncal 1392, Montevideo, Uruguay Canada
Kellian S.A. 2800 Park Place, 666 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2Z7,
Uzbekistan Canada
77 Minor Passage, Tashkent, 100084, Uzbekistan Charlotte's Web Holdings, Inc. (19.90%)17,18
JSC JV “UZBAT A.O.” (97.38%) 35 English Drive, Moncton, New Brunswick, E1E 3X3, Canada
Venezuela Organigram Holdings Inc. (30.59%)15
Czech Republic
Avenida Francisco de Miranda, Edif. Torre Chacao 1902, Piso PB,
Of. PB, Urb. Chacao, Caracas - Estado Miranda, 1060, Venezuela Na strži 1702/65, Nusle, 140 00 Praha 4, Czech Republic
Proyectos de Inversion BAT 1902 C.A. NEVAJGLUJ a.s. (28%)4,18
Avenida Francisco de Miranda, Edificio Bigott, Los Ruices, Finland
Caracas – Estado Miranda, 1070, Venezuela
c/o YTL-Palvelu Oy Eteläranta 10 00130 Helsinki
Agrobigott, C.A.
Suomen SUP-Tuottajayhteisö Oy (Finnish SUP Producer Group
Compania Anonima Cigarrera Bigott Sucesores Ltd) (20%)9,18
Distribuidora Bigott, C.A. France
Fundacion Bigott11 164 rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré, 75008 Paris
Av. del Centro, Edificio Mega IV, Piso 9, Ofic. 9-A/9-B, Los Dos Alcome SAS (24%)9,18
Caminos, Caracas, Venezuela, 1070, Venezuela
Germany
Agrega de Venezuela, Agreven, C.A. (50%) (In Liquidation)
Jägerstraße 28-31, 10117 Berlin, Germany
Vietnam Sanity Group GmbH (16.32%)12
Area 8, Long Binh Ward, Bien Hoa City, Dong Nai Province,
Greece
Vietnam
25, Vrana, Athens, Greece, 115 25
British American Tobacco – Vinataba (JV) (70%)
18th Floor, Tower A, Commercial and service area combined with high- A A l n t o e n rn y a m ti e v e (1 M 7.5 a 0 n % ag )9 e ,1 m 8 ent of Tobacco Products Filters Societe
rise residential Lot 1-13, 15 Tran Bach Dang Street, Thu Thiem Ward,
Thu Duc City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Hungary
East Asia Area Services Company Limited8 H-6800 Hódmezóvásárhely, Erzsébeti út 5/b, Hungary
Lot 45C/I, Road #7, Vinh Loc Industrial Park, Binh Chanh District, Országos Dohányboltellátó Korlátolt Felelosségu Társaság (49%)9
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
India
VINA-BAT Joint Venture Company Limited (49%)
1-7-1063/1065, Azamabad, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad, 500 020,
Zambia India
Plot No. PH1 IND & 53 & 54, LS-MFEZ, Chifwema Road, Lusaka, Zambia VST Industries Limited (32.16%)13
British American Tobacco (Zambia) plc (75.10%) Virginia House, 37, J.L. Nehru Road, Kolkata, 700071, India
Zimbabwe ITC Limited (25.44%)13
Manchester Road 1, Southerton, Harare, Zimbabwe Italy
American-Cigarette Company (Overseas) (Private) Ltd Via Scarsellini, 14, 20161 Milan, Italy
British American Tobacco Zimbabwe (Holdings) Limited (42.98%) Erion Care (25%)9,18
Rothmans Limited (In Liquidation) Netherlands
Koeweistraat 14 4181CD Waardenburg, Netherlands
Coöperatie Primera B.A.16
Coöperatie Volado U.A.16
Slovakia
Vajnorská 100B, 831 04 Bratislava - mestská časť -Nové Mesto,
Slovenská republika
SPAK-EKO, a.s. (25%)9,18
Sweden
Box 74123-103, 741 40 Knivsta, Stockholm, Sweden
SUP Filter Producentansvar Sverige AB (33%)9,18
379
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Financial Statements
Group Companies and Undertakings
Continued
Associated Undertakings and Joint Ventures continued
Switzerland
c/o NBA Fiduciaire S.A., Route de la Glâne 107, 1752 Villars-sur-
Glâne, Switzerland
Intertab S.A. (50%)
United Kingdom
4a Station Parade, Uxbridge Road, London, W5 3LD, United
Kingdom
AYR Limited (13.14%)14
United States
12 Timber Creek Land, Newark, Delaware, 19711, United States
Steady State LLC (9.92%)12
11760 Sorrento Valley Road, Suite A, San Diego, CA 92121
ZabBio, Inc (49%)7
8022 Southpark Circle Suite 500, Littleton, CO 80120, United
States
DeFloria LLC (19.90%)12
Uzbekistan
Gulobod Village, Samarkand Region, 140100, Uzbekistan
FE "Samfruit" JSC (45.40%)
Yemen
P.O. Box 14, Sanna, Yemen
Kamaran Industry and Investment Company (31%)17
P.O. Box 5302, Hoban, Taiz, Yemen
United Industries Company Limited (32%)17
Joint Operations
Hong Kong
29/F, Oxford House, 979 King’s Road, Taikoo Place, Quarry Bay,
Hong Kong, China
CTBAT International Co. Limited (50%)
Notes:
1. Ownership held in Membership Interest.
2. Ownership held in the class of Series F and 2nd Preferred Shares.
3. Ownership held in the class of A Shares (50%) and class of B Shares (100%).
4. Ownership held in class of A Shares and B Shares.
5. Ownership held solely in class of Preference Shares.
6. Ownership held in class of Ordinary and Investment Shares.
7. Ownership held in 49% Share Capital and 39% Voting Rights.
8. Ownership held in Registered Capital.
9. Ownership held in Voting Shares.
10. Ownership held in Equity Units.
11. Entity type: Foundation, Non-Profit or Limited by Guarantee.
12. Ownership held in Preferred Shares.
13. 31 March year-end.
14. 31 May year-end.
15. 30 September year-end.
16. 16 July year-end.
17. Refer to Accounting Note 14: Investments in associates and joint ventures.
18. Accounted for as an investment at fair value through profit and loss.
19. Voting interest.
380
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
381
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
382
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
383
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
384
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
385
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
386
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
387
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
388
In this section
Additional Shareholder Other
Disclosures Information Information
Information on the Group 390 Share Prices and Listings 448 Glossary 467
Selected Financial Information 394 Dividends 449 Cross-Reference to Form-20F 468
Non-Financial Measures 391 Shareholder Taxation
Non-GAAP Measures 395 Information 451
Employees 411 Share Capital and
Security Ownership 455
Additional Disclosures on
Liquidity and Capital Resources 412 Articles of Association 457
Summary of Group Risk Factors 414 Purchase of Shares 460
Group Risk Factors 415 Group Employee Trust 461
Regulation of the American Depositary Shares 462
Group’s Business 436 Shareholding Administration
Material Contracts 441 and Services 463
Property, Plant and Equipment 443 Exhibits 464
Raw Materials 443
U.S. Corporate Governance
Practices 444
Controls and Procedures 445
Statements Regarding
Competitive Position 445
Directors’ Report Information 446
Cautionary Statement 447
389
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Information on the Group
Overview –2016 – acquisition of Ten Motives in the UK;
British American Tobacco p.l.c. is the parent holding company of –2017 – acquisition of the remaining 57.8% of Reynolds American
the Group, a leading multi-category consumer goods business that Inc. the Group did not already own. Following completion of the
provides tobacco and nicotine products to millions of adult acquisition, Reynolds American Inc. became an indirect, wholly-
consumers around the world. owned subsidiary of BAT and is no longer a publicly-held
The Group, excluding the Group’s associated undertakings, corporation. In 2017, the Group also acquired certain tobacco
is organised into three regions: assets from Bulgartabac Holding AD in Bulgaria and Fabrika
Duhana Sarajevo (FDS) in Bosnia, acquired Winnington Holdings
–the United States of America (Reynolds American Inc.);
AB in Sweden and acquired certain assets from Must Have
–Americas and Europe (AME); and Limited in the UK, including the electronic cigarette brand ViP;
–Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and Africa (APMEA). –2018 – acquisition of Quantus Beteiligungs-und
The Group’s range of combustible products covers all segments, Beratungsgesellschaft mbH in Germany;
from value-for-money to premium, with a portfolio of international, –2019 – acquisition of Twisp Proprietary Limited in South Africa
regional and local tobacco brands to meet a broad array of adult and 60% of VapeWild Holdings LLC in the U.S.;
tobacco consumer preferences wherever the Group operates.
–2020 – acquisition of the nicotine pouch product assets of Dryft
The Group has also built a portfolio of smokeless tobacco and Sciences, LLC (Dryft) in the U.S. and the acquisition of Eastern
nicotine products – including Vapour products, Heated Products Tobacco Company for Trading in Saudi Arabia;
(HPs) and Modern Oral products, which are collectively termed
–2021 – entry into a strategic research and product development
the New Categories, as well as Traditional Oral products.
collaboration agreement with Organigram Inc., a licensed
The Group manages a globally-integrated supply chain and its producer of cannabis and cannabis-derived products in Canada
products are distributed to retail outlets worldwide. and a wholly-owned subsidiary of publicly-traded Organigram
History and development of BAT Holdings Inc. and acquisition of a 19.9% equity stake in
The Group has had a significant global presence in the tobacco Organigram Holdings Inc.. Also in 2021, the Group disposed of its
industry for over 100 years. BAT Ltd. was incorporated in 1902, Iranian subsidiary, BAT Pars Company PJSC;
when the Imperial Tobacco Company and the American Tobacco –2022 – acquisition of a 16% equity stake in Sanity Group
Company agreed to form a joint venture company. BAT Ltd. GmbH, a German cannabis company. In 2022, the Group also
inherited companies and quickly expanded into major markets, made an investment, via a convertible debenture in the amount
including India, Ceylon, Egypt, Malaya, Northern Europe and East of c.£48 million, into Charlotte’s Web Holdings, Inc., a U.S.-based
Africa. In 1927, BAT Ltd. expanded into the U.S. market through its hemp extract wellness products business;
acquisition of B&W. –2023 – disposal of the Group's businesses in Russia and
Belarus; and
During the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, the Group diversified its
business under the umbrella of B.A.T Industries p.l.c., with –2024 – partial sale of the Group's investment in ITC Ltd in India,
acquisitions in the paper, cosmetics, retail and financial services after which the Group's shareholding has reduced to 25.45%.
industries, among others. Various business reorganisations Also in 2024, further investments in Organigram Holdings Inc. in
followed as the business was eventually refocused on the Group’s Canada, increasing the Group's equity stake to c. 30.6%, and the
core cigarette, cigars and tobacco products businesses with BAT acquisition of Beni Oral Nicotine LLC in the U.S.
becoming a separately listed entity on the LSE in 1998. British American Tobacco p.l.c. was incorporated in July 1997 under
The following is a summary of the significant mergers, acquisitions the laws of England and Wales as a public limited company and is
and disposals undertaken since 1998: domiciled in the United Kingdom.
–1999 – global merger with Rothmans International; Seasonality
The Group’s business segments are not significantly affected
–2000 – acquisition of Imperial Tobacco Canada;
by seasonality although in certain markets cigarette consumption
–2003 – acquisition of Ente Tabacchi Italiani S.p.A., Italy’s state- trends rise during summer months due to longer daylight time
owned tobacco company, Tabacalera Nacional in Peru and and tourism.
Duvanska Industrija Vranje in Serbia;
Patents and trademarks
–2004 – the U.S. assets, liabilities and operations, other than
Our trademarks, which include the brand names under which our
certain specified assets and liabilities, of BAT’s wholly-owned
products are sold, are key assets which we consider, in the
subsidiary, B&W, were combined with RJR Tobacco Company
aggregate, to be important to the business as a whole. As well as
to form Reynolds American Inc. As a result of the B&W business
protecting our brand names by way of trademark registration, we
combination, B&W acquired beneficial ownership of
also protect our innovations by means of patents and designs in
approximately 42% of the Reynolds American Inc. shares;
key global jurisdictions.
–2008 – acquisition of Tekel, the Turkish state-owned tobacco
Board oversight of M&A transactions
company and the cigarette and snus business of Skandinavisk
The Company’s Board has strategic oversight of significant
Tobakskompagni A/S;
M&A transactions (determined by value or strategic nature of
–2009 – acquisition of an effective 99% interest in Bentoel transaction), which are referred to it for noting under the Group
in Indonesia; Statement of Delegated Authorities (SoDA).
–2011 – acquisition of Protabaco in Colombia; Other M&A transactions are referred for strategic oversight to the
–2012 – acquisition of CN Creative Limited in the UK; Management Board or other applicable senior forum or persons,
under the Group SoDA. Those referral requirements under the
–2013 – entered into joint operations in China;
Group SoDA apply alongside any requirement for corporate
–2015 – acquisition of the shares not already owned by the Group approval of M&A transactions by or within a Group company.
in Souza Cruz in Brazil, the acquisition of the CHIC Group in
Poland, the acquisition of TDR d.o.o., a cigarette manufacturer in
Central Europe. Also in 2015, the Group increased its investment
in Reynolds American Inc. by US$4.7 billion to maintain the
Group’s approximate 42% equity position following Reynolds
American Inc.’s purchase of Lorillard Inc.;
390
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Non-Financial Measures
Volume returns can be realised. Volume share provides an indicator of the
Volume is defined as the number of units sold. Units may vary Group’s relative performance in unit terms versus competitors.
between categories. This can be summarised for the principal Volume share in each period compares the average volume share
metrics as follows: in the period with the average volume share in the prior year. This
–Factory-made cigarettes (FMC) – sticks, regardless of weight or is a more robust measure of performance, removing short-term
dimensions; volatility that may arise at a point in time. Due to the timing of
available information, volume share for 2024 is year-to-date
–Roll-Your-Own/Make-Your-Own – kilos, converted to a stick
December 2024 unless otherwise stated.
equivalent based upon 0.8 grams (per stick equivalent) for Roll-
Your-Own and between 0.5 and 0.7 grams (per stick equivalent) However, in certain circumstances, related to periods of
for Make-Your-Own; introduction to a market, in order to illustrate the latest
performance, data may be provided as at the end of the period
–Traditional Oral – pouches (being 1:1 conversion to stick
rather than the average in that period. In these instances, the
equivalent) and kilos, converted to a stick equivalent based upon
Group states these at a specific date (for instance, December
2.8 grams
2024).
(per stick equivalent) for Moist Snuff, 2.0 grams (per stick
equivalent) for Dry Snuff and 7.1 grams (per stick equivalent) for Value Share
other oral; Value share is the estimated retail value of units bought by adult
–Modern Oral – pouches, being 1:1 conversion to stick equivalent; consumers of a particular brand or combination of brands, as a
proportion of the total estimated retail value of units bought by
–Heated sticks – sticks, being 1:1 conversion to stick equivalent; and
adult consumers in the industry, category or other sub-
–Vapour – units, being pods, bottles and disposable units. There is categorisation in discussion. Except when referencing particular
no conversion to a stick equivalent. markets, value share is based on our Top markets. Management
Volume is recognised in line with IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts note that the markets that form the definition of Top markets may
with Customers, based upon transfer of control. It is assumed that change between periods as this will reflect the development of the
there is no material difference, in line with the Group’s recognition category within markets including their relative sizes.
of revenue, between the transfer of control and shipment date. Where possible, the Group utilises data provided by third-party
Volume is used by management and investors to assess the organisations, including NielsenIQ, based upon retail audit of sales
relative performance of the Group and its brands within to adult consumers. In certain markets, where such data is not
categories, given volume is a principal determinant of revenue. available, other measures are employed which assess value share
based upon other movements within the supply chain, such as
Volume Share
sales to retailers. This may depend on the provision of data by
Volume share is the estimated number of units bought by adult customers (including distributors and wholesalers).
consumers of a specific brand or combination of brands, as a
Value share is used by management to assess the relative
proportion of the total estimated units bought by adult consumers
performance of the Group and its brands against the performance
in the industry, category or other sub-categorisation. Sub-
of its competitors in the categories and geographies in which the
categories include, but are not limited to, Heated Products (HP),
Group operates, specifically indicating the Group’s ability to realise
Modern Oral, Traditional Oral, Total Oral or Cigarettes. Except
value relative to the market. The measure is particularly useful
when referencing particular markets, volume share is based on our
when the Group’s products and/or the relevant category in the
Top markets. Management note that the markets that form the
market in which they are sold has developed or achieved scale from
definition of Top markets may change between periods as this will
which value can be realised. The Group’s management believes
reflect the development of the category within markets including
that this measure is useful to the users of the financial statements
their relative sizes.
to comprehend the relative performance of the Group and its
Where possible, the Group utilises data provided by third-party brands against the performance of its competitors in the
organisations, including NielsenIQ, based upon retail audit of sales categories and geographies in which the Group operates,
to adult consumers. In certain markets, where such data is not specifically indicating the Group’s ability to realise value relative to
available, other measures are employed which assess volume the market.
share based upon other movements within the supply chain, such
Value share in each period compares the average value share in
as sales to retailers. This may depend on the provision of data by
the period with the average value share in the prior year. This is a
customers including distributors/wholesalers.
more robust measure of performance, removing short-term
Volume share is used by management to assess the relative volatility that may arise at a point of time. Due to the timing of
performance of the Group and its brands against the performance available information, value share for 2024 is year-to-date
of its competitors in the categories and geographies in which the December 2024 unless otherwise stated.
Group operates. The Group’s management believes that this
However, in certain circumstances, related to periods of
measure is useful to the users of the financial statements to
introduction to a market, in order to illustrate the latest
understand the relative performance of the Group and its brands
performance, data may be provided as at the end of the period
against the performance of its competitors in the categories and
rather than the average in that period. In these instances the
geographies in which the Group operates. This measure is also
Group states these are at a specific date (for instance, December
useful to understand the Group’s performance when seeking to
2024).
grow scale within a market or category from which future financial
391
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-Financial Measures
Continued
Price/Mix
Price mix is a term used by management and investors to explain the movement in revenue between periods. Revenue is affected by
the volume (how many units are sold) and the price (how much is each unit sold for). The Group may achieve a movement in revenue due
to the relative proportions of higher price volume sold compared to lower price volume sold (price/mix)
This term is used to explain the Group’s relative performance between periods only. It is calculated as the difference between the
movement in revenue (between periods) and volume (between periods). For instance, the marginal increase in combustibles revenue
(excluding translational foreign exchange movements and the impact of the sale of the Group’s businesses in Russia and Belarus) of 0.1%
in 2024, with a decline in combustibles volume (also excluding the impact of the sale of the Group’s businesses in Russia and Belarus) of
5.2% in 2024, leads to a price mix of +5.3% in 2024. No assumptions underlie this metric as it utilises the Group’s own data.
Consumers of Smokeless Products
The number of consumers of Smokeless products is defined as the estimated number of legal age (minimum 18 years) consumers of the
Group’s Smokeless products - which does not necessarily mean these users are solus consumers of these products. In markets where
regular consumer tracking is in place, this estimate is obtained from adult consumer tracking studies conducted by third parties
(including Kantar). In markets where regular consumer tracking is not in place, the number of consumers of Smokeless products is
derived from volume sales of consumables and devices in such markets, using consumption patterns obtained from other similar
markets with consumer tracking (utilising studies conducted by third parties, including Kantar). The number of consumers is adjusted for
those identified (as part of the consumer tracking studies undertaken) as using more than one BAT brand.
The number of Smokeless products consumers is used by management to assess the number of consumers regularly using the Group’s
New Categories products as the increase in Smokeless products is a key pillar of the Group’s Sustainability ambition and is integral to the
sustainability of our business.
The Group’s management believes that this measure is useful to the users of the financial statements given the Group’s sustainability
ambition and alignment to the sustainability of the business with respect to the Smokeless portfolio.
During 2024, in line with standard practice, Kantar has made enhancements to their adult consumer tracking studies to more accurately
capture market trends across categories. To ensure that the data is comparable between periods, Kantar has back-trended the data to
prevent any trend break, with the revised historical data provided below:
Million consumers 2023 2022 2021
As previously reported 23.9 20.7 17.1
Back trended to reflect enhanced adult consumer tracking 25.5 22.3 18.2
% of farms monitored for child labour; % of farms with incidents of child labour identified; Number of child labour
incidents identified; % incidents of child labour identified and reported as resolved by end of the growing season
Our definition of child labour is aligned to how the International Labour Organization (ILO) defines the term, namely that the work that
deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and that is harmful to their physical and mental development
(www.ilo.org/ipec/facts/lang--en/index.htm).
Reported via our Thrive annual reports covering all BAT directly-contracted farmers and farmers supplying our third-party suppliers,
representing more than 93% of total tobacco purchased in 2024. As tobacco-growing seasons vary around the world, data is based on
the most recent crop cycle at the time of reporting, instead of the crop grown in the calendar year.
Data in relation to our contracted farmers is collected by BAT Field Technicians who visit our contracted farmers approximately once a
month during the growing season. Details of each visit are recorded in our Farmer Sustainability Management (FSM) digital app by the
Field Technician and are formally acknowledged by the farmer. If any child labour case is identified, it is reported in the system and
treated as a critical prompt action. For the case to be resolved, this is followed by an unannounced visit shortly after to observe whether
this is repeated and a remediation plan agreed with the farmer. The remediation plan varies from case to case, considering the individual
circumstances.
Our third-party Leaf suppliers collect data via their own farm monitoring system. All Leaf suppliers report their results via Thrive.
Once the data is collected in the field, the country team analyse the data and approves it or reopens the questions for discussion with the
farmers. After that, the data is reported in Thrive and made available to the Global Leaf ESG team. The data is also reviewed by an
independent third party.
392
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Ethnically Diverse
For the purposes of the ethnicity agenda, six global ‘Ethnically Diverse’ groups were determined considering BAT's global market
footprint: Asian, Black, Hispanic/Latin American, Indigenous, Mixed and Other Ethnic groups. Individuals identified as White, those that
have ‘Preferred not to Disclose’ and individuals that have ‘Not Disclosed’ i.e. their ethnicity field remains blank, are not captured in the
data set 'Ethnically Diverse’ groups. Employees performing the same work or work of equal value are paid equitably and any differences in
pay are for objective reasons and not influenced by factors such as gender and/or ethnicity.
For the purposes of our International Pay Equity Analysis, ‘Ethnically Diverse’ groups in the respective countries are defined as ethnic
groups who, because of their physical or cultural characteristics, are/were historically and systematically under-represented. Being a
numerical minority is not a characteristic of being an Ethnically Diverse group; sometimes larger groups can be considered Ethnically
Diverse groups. ‘Non-ethnically Diverse’ groups in the respective countries are defined as ethnic groups who, because of their physical or
cultural characteristics, are/were historically and systematically represented.
Senior Leadership Teams
Members of senior leadership teams are defined as employees in Management grades 37-41.
% Female Representation in Management Roles
Management-grade employees include all employees at job grade 34 (excluding the Management Board) or above, as well as any global
graduates. The gender of each employee is typically recorded at the point of hire. The percentage of female representation in
Management roles is calculated by dividing the number of female Management-grade employees by the total number of Management-
grade employees.
% of Key Leadership teams with at least a 50% spread of distinct nationalities
The number of Management Board (MB) members that have at least a 50% spread of nationalities within their Key Leadership teams
(MB-1 members only), as a percentage of the total number of Management Board members. A Key Leadership team is categorised as
the group of direct reports that report into a Management Board member.
The 50% spread of distinct nationalities is satisfied if at least half of a given Management Board's Key Leadership team members are of
distinct nationalities. The nationality of each employee is typically recorded at the point of hire. U.S. employees hired by Reynolds
American Companies prior to its merger with BAT did not disclose nationality at point of hire and therefore these employees are
excluded from the calculation.
% packaging recyclable, reusable or compostable
This KPI measures the share of materials used in primary and secondary packaging that is either reusable, recycle ready or compostable
across sold products in each reference reporting year. By packaging we mean materials used to wrap or protect our goods.
Examples of primary and secondary packaging are all the cigarette pack elements, film used to wrap cigarette packs or closing tapes of
shipment boxes applied by BAT factories, the boxes our devices come in or the pulp trays used to secure a device in a box.
Tertiary packaging items applied by logistics partners or retailers outside our control, for example plastic pallets, are out of scope.
Reusable packaging - Packaging which has been designed to accomplish, or proves its ability to accomplish, a number of trips or
rotations in a system for reuse.
Recycle-ready packaging - Packaging that is intentionally designed and produced to enable recycling where infrastructure exists based
on material choices and global guidance.
Composting - A packaging or packaging component is compostable if it is in compliance with relevant international compostability
standards and if its successful post-consumer collection, sorting and composting is proven to work in practice and at scale. We use a
composting aerobic process designed to produce compost from packaging.
While there are no means to trace what happens with packaging materials at their end of life due to the number of end markets in which
our products are sold, variations in consumer behaviour and local infrastructure to process waste at end of life, this KPI focuses on the
potential for reuse, recycling or composting of our packaging.
To calculate the share of recyclable, reusable and compostable packaging (in %), we sum the volume (in tonnes) of reusable, recyclable,
recycle ready or compostable packaging materials that have been used in our factories for sold products and divide it by the overall
volume (in tonnes) of all packaging materials used in sold products for the reporting period.
393
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Selected Financial Information
This information set out below has been derived from, in part, the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group commencing
on page 262. This selected financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the
Strategic Report.
As of and for the Year Ended 31 December
All items shown in £m except per share information 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
Income statement data
Revenue2 25,867 27,283 27,655 25,684 25,776
Raw materials and consumables used (4,565) (4,545) (4,781) (4,542) (4,583)
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 129 (96) 227 160 445
Employee benefit costs (2,831) (2,664) (2,972) (2,717) (2,744)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs (3,101) (28,614) (1,305) (1,076) (1,450)
Other operating income 340 432 722 196 188
Loss on reclassification from amortised cost to fair value (10) (9) (5) (3) (3)
Other operating expenses (13,093) (7,538) (9,018) (7,468) (7,667)
Profit/(loss) from operations 2,736 (15,751) 10,523 10,234 9,962
Net finance costs (1,098) (1,895) (1,641) (1,486) (1,745)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,900 585 442 415 455
Profit/(loss) before taxation 3,538 (17,061) 9,324 9,163 8,672
Taxation on ordinary activities (357) 2,872 (2,478) (2,189) (2,108)
Profit/(loss) for the year 3,181 (14,189) 6,846 6,974 6,564
Per share data
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares, in millions 2,214 2,229 2,256 2,287 2,286
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares, in millions3 2,225 2,237 2,267 2,297 2,295
Earnings/(loss) per share-basic (pence) 136.7p -646.6p 293.3p 296.9p 280.0p
Earnings/(loss) per share-diluted (pence)3 136.0p -646.6p 291.9p 295.6p 278.9p
Dividends per share (pence)4 240.24p 235.52p 230.88p 217.80p 215.60p
Balance sheet data
Assets
Non-current assets 104,605 104,530 138,137 124,558 124,078
Current assets 14,294 14,186 15,409 12,807 13,612
Total assets 118,899 118,716 153,546 137,365 137,690
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities 50,161 50,109 59,983 54,820 59,257
Current liabilities 18,743 15,673 17,853 15,144 15,478
Total borrowings 36,950 39,730 43,139 39,658 43,968
Equity
Share capital 585 614 614 614 614
Total equity 49,995 52,934 75,710 67,401 62,955
Cash flow data
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,125 10,714 10,394 9,717 9,786
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 1,375 (296) (705) (1,140) (783)
Net cash used in financing activities (10,632) (9,314) (8,878) (8,749) (7,897)
Notes:
1. All of the information above is in respect of continuing operations, revised for the fully retrospective adoption of IFRS 15.
2.Revenue is net of duty, excise and other taxes of £33,818 million, £36,917 million, £38,527 million, £38,595 million and £39,172 million for the years ended 31 December 2024, 2023, 2022,
2021, and 2020, respectively.
3.In 2023, the Group reported a loss for the year. Following the requirements of IAS 33, the impact of share options would be antidilutive and are therefore excluded, for 2023, from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IFRS. However, for consistency across periods, the presentation of the diluted weighted number of ordinary
shares above includes those that are potentially dilutive. The diluted number of shares, less those that are deemed to be anti-dilutive under IAS33, used in the calculation of diluted
earnings per share in compliance with IFRS was 2,229 million.
4.In February 2025, the BAT Directors declared an interim dividend of 240.24 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2024, payable in four equal instalments of 60.06 pence per
ordinary share. The interim dividend will be paid to BAT shareholders in May 2025, August 2025, November 2025 and February 2026. The equivalent quarterly dividends receivable by
holders of ADSs in US dollars will be calculated based on the exchange rate on the applicable payment date.
394
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement the presentation of the Group’s results of operations and financial condition in accordance with IFRS, we also present
several non-GAAP measures used by management to monitor the Group’s performance. The Group’s management regularly reviews
the measures used to assess and present the financial performance of the Group and, as relevant, its geographic segments.
Changes to Non-GAAP measures in 2024
In 2024, the Group introduced adjusted Gross Profit, adjusted Gross Margin and Category Contribution Margin as non-GAAP measures.
These measures demonstrate the Group's profitability (before adjusting items and translational foreign exchange) from the principal
product categories, illustrating the category profitability development as the Group realises the transition from combustibles to
Smokeless products in line with the Group's strategy to Build a Smokeless World. Accordingly, New Categories adjusted Gross Margin
and New Categories Contribution Margin will be used within the Group's incentive schemes from January 2025.
The following tables include, where relevant, reconciliations to the Group's non-GAAP measures, from the most comparable
IFRS equivalent.
Revenue at Constant Rates of Exchange and Organic Revenue at Current and Constant Rates of Exchange
Definition – revenue before the impact of foreign exchange and also presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain
businesses bought or sold in the period.
To supplement BAT’s revenue presented in accordance with IFRS, the Group’s Management Board, as the chief operating decision-
maker, reviews revenue at constant rates of exchange to evaluate the underlying business performance of the Group and its geographic
segments. The Group’s Management Board defines this measure as revenue retranslated at the prior periods rate of exchange.
The Group’s Management Board believes that revenue at constant rates of exchange provides information that enables users of the
financial statements to compare the Group’s business performance across periods without the impacts of translational foreign
exchange. This measure has limitations as an analytical tool. The most directly comparable IFRS measure to revenue at constant rates
of exchange is revenue. Revenue at constant rates of exchange is not a presentation made in accordance with IFRS, and is not a measure
of financial condition or liquidity and should not be considered as an alternative to revenue as determined in accordance with IFRS.
Revenue at constant rates of exchange is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result,
you should not consider this performance measure in isolation from, or as a substitute analysis for, BAT’s results as determined in
accordance with IFRS.
As Management assesses revenue at constant rates also on an organic basis within the Group's incentive schemes, as reported within
the Remuneration Report beginning in page 205, these measures are also presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain
businesses bought or sold in the period.
Refer to note 2 in the Notes on the Accounts for further discussion of the segmental results and for the reconciliation of revenue
at current and constant rates of exchange to segmental revenue and to Group revenue for the years ended 31 December 2024, 2023
and 2022.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Revenue 25,867 27,283 27,655
Impact of translational foreign exchange 1,284 813 (1,382)
2024 revenue re-translated at 2023 exchange rates 27,151
2023 revenue re-translated at 2022 exchange rates 28,096
2022 revenue re-translated at 2021 exchange rates 26,273
Change in revenue at prior year’s exchange rates (constant rates) -0.5% 1.6% 2.3%
Inorganic adjustments re-translated at prior year's exchange rates (constant rates) — (550)
Organic revenue re-translated at prior year's exchange rates (constant rates) 27,151 27,546
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Revenue 25,867 27,283 27,655
Inorganic adjustments — (479) (935)
Organic revenue 25,867 26,804 26,720
In 2022, our businesses in Russia and Belarus generated £935 million of revenue. During 2023, while still owned by the Group (as they
were sold in September 2023), revenue from these business was £479 million. Accordingly, the sale of our businesses in Russia and
Belarus was a negative drag on reported revenue by £456 million in 2023 (compared to 2022) and a further £479 million in 2024
(compared to 2023).
395
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
Revenue by Product Category or Geographic Segment – Including Revenue from New Categories, at Constant
Rates of Exchange and on an Organic Basis
Definition – revenue by product category, and at the prior year’s prevailing exchange rate and also presented excluding the
inorganic performance of certain businesses bought or sold in the period, derived from the principal product categories of
Combustibles, New Categories (being comprised of revenue from Vapour, HP and Modern Oral), and Traditional Oral, including
by the geographic segments of the United States, Americas and Europe, and Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa.
To supplement BAT’s revenue presented in accordance with IFRS, the Group’s Management Board, as the chief operating decision-
maker, reviews revenue growth from the principal product categories of combustibles, New Categories and Traditional Oral, including
from the geographic segments of the United States, Americas and Europe, and Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa, to evaluate the
underlying business performance of the Group reflecting the focus of the Group’s investment activity. The Group’s Management Board
assesses revenue by product category, including by geographic segment, at constant rates of exchange, translated to the Group’s
reporting currency at the prior period’s prevailing exchange rate, derived from the Group’s combustible portfolio (including but not
limited to Kent, Dunhill, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall, Rothmans, Camel (U.S.), Newport (U.S.), Natural American Spirit (U.S.)), the Group’s New
Category portfolio (being Vapour, HP and Modern Oral) and the Group’s Traditional Oral portfolio and the Group’s operations in the
United States, Americas and Europe, and Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa.
The Group’s Management Board also believes that the revenue performance by product category, including by geographic segment, provides
information that enables users of the financial statements to compare the Group’s business performance across periods and by reference to
the Group’s investment activity. Revenue by product category, including by geographic segment, have limitations as analytical tools. The most
directly comparable IFRS measure to revenue by product category, including by geographic segment, is revenue. Revenue by product category,
including by geographic segment, are not presentations made in accordance with IFRS, are not measures of financial condition or liquidity
and should not be considered as alternatives to revenue as determined in accordance with IFRS. Revenue by product category, including by
geographic segment, are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, you should not consider
these performance measures in isolation from, or as a substitute analysis for, BAT’s results as determined in accordance with IFRS.
As Management assesses New Categories revenue growth on an organic basis within the Group's incentive schemes, as reported within the
Remuneration Report beginning in page 205, this measure is also presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses bought
or sold in the period. The organic figures shown for the relevant product categories are provided to show the build-up towards revenue from
New Categories and what Management is working towards.
Reconciliation of revenue by product category to revenue by product category at constant rates of exchange
and on an organic basis (2024 - 2023)
2024
Impact of Reported Reported at Inorganic Organic Organic at
Reported vs 2023 exchange at cc cc vs 2023 adjustments at cc cc vs 2023
£m % £m £m % £m £m %
New Categories:
Vapour 1,721 -5.1% 44 1,765 -2.6% — 1,765 -2.5%
HP 921 -7.6% 51 972 -2.5% — 972 +5.8%
Modern Oral 790 +46.6% 24 814 +51.0% — 814 +53.2%
Total New Categories 3,432 +2.5% 119 3,551 +6.1% — 3,551 +8.9%
Traditional Oral 1,092 -6.0% 31 1,123 -3.4% — 1,123 -3.4%
Combustibles 20,685 -6.4% 1,063 21,748 -1.6% — 21,748 +0.1%
Other 658 -1.0% 71 729 +9.7% — 729 +10.1%
Revenue 25,867 -5.2% 1,284 27,151 -0.5% — 27,151 +1.3%
Inorganic adjustments — — —
Organic revenue 25,867 -3.5% 1,284 27,151 +1.3%
Reconciliation of revenue by product category to revenue by product category at constant rates of exchange (2023 - 2022)
and on an organic basis – 2023
2023 2022
Inorganic
Impact of Reported Reported adjustments Organic
Reported vs 2022 exchange at cc at cc vs 2022 at cc at cc Reported
£m % £m £m % £m £m £m
New Categories:
Vapour 1,812 +26.2% 11 1,823 +26.9 % (2) 1,821 1,436
HP 996 -6.0% 37 1,033 -2.5 % (89) 944 1,060
Modern Oral 539 +35.3% 15 554 +39.0 % (7) 547 398
Total New Categories 3,347 +15.6% 63 3,410 +17.8 % (98) 3,312 2,894
Traditional Oral 1,163 -3.8% 9 1,172 -3.1 % — 1,172 1,209
Combustibles 22,108 -4.0% 738 22,846 -0.8 % (450) 22,396 23,030
Other 665 +27.6% 3 668 +28.4 % (2) 666 522
Revenue 27,283 -1.3% 813 28,096 +1.6 % (550) 27,546 27,655
Inorganic adjustments (479) (71) (550) (935)
Organic revenue 26,804 +0.3% 742 27,546 26,720
396
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Reconciliation of revenue by product category to revenue by product category at constant rates of exchange
2024 2023
Impact of Reported Reported at
Reported vs 2023 exchange at cc cc vs 2023 Reported
U.S. £m % £m £m % £m
New Categories:
Vapour 998 -3.5 % 27 1,025 -0.8 % 1,033
HP — — — — — —
Modern Oral 80 +223.3 % 2 82 +232.3 % 25
Total New Categories 1,078 +1.8 % 29 1,107 +4.6 % 1,058
Traditional Oral 1,058 -6.1 % 30 1,088 -3.4 % 1,127
Combustibles 9,094 -6.7 % 253 9,347 -4.1 % 9,744
Other 48 -25.3 % 2 50 -22.7 % 65
Revenue 11,278 -6.0 % 314 11,592 -3.4 % 11,994
2023 2022
Impact of Reported Reported
Reported vs 2022 exchange at cc at cc vs 2022 Reported
U.S. £m % £m £m % £m
New Categories:
Vapour 1,033 +13.1% 6 1,039 +13.8 % 913
HP — —% — — — % —
Modern Oral 25 -32.2% — 25 -31.8 % 36
Total New Categories 1,058 +11.3% 6 1,064 +12.0 % 949
Traditional Oral 1,127 -4.0% 7 1,134 -3.4 % 1,174
Combustibles 9,744 -6.9% 58 9,802 -6.4 % 10,470
Other 65 +44.1% — 65 +45.2 % 46
Revenue 11,994 -5.1% 71 12,065 -4.5 % 12,639
Note:
cc: constant currency – measures are calculated based on a re-translation of the current year’s results of the Group at the prior year’s exchange rates and, where applicable,
its geographical segments or product categories.
Reconciliation of revenue by product category to revenue by product category at constant rates of exchange
2024 2023
Impact of Reported Reported at
Reported vs 2023 exchange at cc cc vs 2023 Reported
AME £m % £m £m % £m
New Categories:
Vapour 611 -10.8 % 14 625 -8.8 % 686
HP 443 -12.2 % 10 453 -10.4 % 505
Modern Oral 676 +40.3 % 21 697 +44.4 % 482
Total New Categories 1,730 +3.5 % 45 1,775 +6.1 % 1,673
Traditional Oral 34 -5.8 % 1 35 -3.6 % 36
Combustibles 7,039 -7.5 % 447 7,486 -1.7 % 7,614
Other 438 -6.7 % 30 468 +0.2 % 468
Revenue 9,241 -5.6 % 523 9,764 -0.3 % 9,791
2023 2022
Impact of Reported Reported
Reported vs 2022 exchange at cc at cc vs 2022 Reported
AME £m % £m £m % £m
New Categories:
Vapour 686 +47.6% (4) 682 +46.9 % 465
HP 505 +2.3% 3 508 +3 % 494
Modern Oral 482 +41.5% 11 493 +44.6 % 341
Total New Categories 1,673 +28.8% 10 1,683 +29.6 % 1,300
Traditional Oral 36 +1.7% 2 38 +7.9 % 35
Combustibles 7,614 +0.3% 196 7,810 +2.9 % 7,588
Other 468 +28.2% (10) 458 +25.2 % 364
Revenue 9,791 +5.4% 198 9,989 +7.6 % 9,287
397
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
2024 2023
Impact of Reported Reported at
Reported vs 2023 exchange at cc cc vs 2023 Reported
APMEA £m % £m £m % £m
New Categories:
Vapour 112 +19.6 % 3 115 +23.7 % 93
HP 478 -2.8 % 41 519 +5.6 % 491
Modern Oral 34 +5.7 % 1 35 +10.0 % 32
Total New Categories 624 +1.0 % 45 669 +8.6 % 616
Traditional Oral — — — — — —
Combustibles 4,552 -4.2 % 363 4,915 +3.5 % 4,750
Other 172 +31.1 % 39 211 +59.8 % 132
Revenue 5,348 -2.7 % 447 5,795 +5.4 % 5,498
2023 2022
Impact of Reported Reported
Reported vs 2022 exchange at cc at cc vs 2022 Reported
APMEA £m % £m £m % £m
New Categories:
Vapour 93 +60.5% 9 102 +74.6 % 58
HP 491 -13.2% 34 525 -7.3 % 566
Modern Oral 32 +50.3% 4 36 +70.8 % 21
Total New Categories 616 -4.5% 47 663 +2.6 % 645
Traditional Oral — — — — — —
Combustibles 4,750 -4.5% 484 5,234 +5.2 % 4,972
Other 132 +18.9% 13 145 +32.0 % 112
Revenue 5,498 -4.0% 544 6,042 +5.5 % 5,729
Note:
cc: constant currency – measures are calculated based on a re-translation of the current year’s results of the Group at the prior year’s exchange rates and, where applicable,
its geographical segments or product categories.
398
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin, each on an Organic basis and at Constant Rates of Exchange
Definition – Profit from operations before the impact of adjusting items and translational foreign exchange, and before all non
production/attributable distribution costs and presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses bought or
sold in the period, in £ and as a proportion of organic revenue (at constant rates).
New Category adjusted gross margin (being a sub-set of Group adjusted gross margin) will be included within the Group's incentive
schemes, as reported within the Remuneration Report beginning on page 205.
Costs are incurred by the products either directly as incurred by the product or category, or via an allocation of shared distribution costs
in a market, based upon each categories revenue as a proportion of total revenue from that market.
Adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin have limitations as analytical tools. They are not presentations made in accordance
with IFRS, are not measures of financial condition or liquidity and should not be considered as alternatives to profit from operations
as determined in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are not necessarily comparable to similarly
titled measures used by other companies.
Please refer to page 401 for the reconciliation of Group profit from operations to adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin,
included as part of a wider reconciliation of non-GAAP measures.
Category Contribution and Category Contribution margin, each on an Organic basis and at Constant Rates of Exchange
Definition – Profit from operations before the impact of adjusting items and translational foreign exchange, having allocated
costs that are attributable to a product category and presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses
bought or sold in the period, in £ and as a proportion of revenue (at constant rates).
New Category contribution is, and New Category contribution margin will be in the future, assessed by management within the Group's
incentive schemes, as reported within the Remuneration Report beginning on
page 205.
Costs are incurred by the products either directly as incurred by the product or category, or via an allocation of shared distribution costs
in a market, based upon each categories revenue as a proportion of total revenue from that market
Category contribution and Category contribution margin by products as measures of the Group’s performance have limitations as
analytical tools. They are not presentations made in accordance with IFRS, are not measures of financial condition or liquidity and should
not be considered as alternatives to profit from operations as determined in accordance with IFRS. Category Contribution and Category
Contribution margin are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Please refer to page 401 for the reconciliation of Group profit from operations to category contribution, included as part of a wider
reconciliation of non-GAAP measures.
The reconciliation provided reflects the marginal contribution of the Group principal product categories to the Group’s financial
performance. This measure includes all attributable revenue and costs. This measure is provided in aggregate as certain costs are
incurred across all New Categories and are not product specific. However, certain overhead costs that are not category specific are
excluded from Category Contribution.
399
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
Adjusted Profit From Operations, Adjusted Operating Margin and Adjusted Organic Profit From Operations
Definition – profit from operations before the impact of adjusting items and adjusted profit from operations as a percentage
of revenue, and also presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses bought or sold in the period.
To supplement BAT’s results from operations presented in accordance with IFRS, the Group’s Management Board, as the chief operating
decision‑maker, reviews adjusted profit from operations to evaluate the underlying business performance of the Group and its geographic
segments, to allocate resources to the overall business and to communicate financial performance to users of the financial statements.
The Group also presents adjusted operating margin, which is defined as adjusted profit from operations as a percentage of revenue.
Adjusted profit from operations and adjusted operating margin are not measures defined by IFRS. The most directly comparable IFRS
measure to adjusted profit from operations is profit from operations.
Adjusting items, as identified in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies, represent certain items of income and expense which the
Group considers distinctive based on their size, nature or incidence. In identifying and quantifying adjusting items, the Group consistently
applies a policy that defines criteria that are required to be met for an item to be classified as adjusting and provides details of items that are
specifically excluded from being classified as adjusting items. Adjusting items in profit from operations include restructuring and integration
costs, amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles, impairment of goodwill and charges in respect of certain litigation. The definition
of adjusting items is explained in note 1 in the Notes on the Accounts.
The Group’s Management Board believes that these additional measures are useful to the users of the financial statements and are used by
the Group’s Management Board as described above, because they exclude the impact of adjusting items which have less bearing on the
routine ongoing operating activities of the Group, thereby enhancing users’ understanding of underlying business performance. The Group’s
Management Board also believes that adjusted profit from operations provides information that enables users of the financial statements to
compare the Group’s business performance across periods. Additionally, the Group’s Management Board believes that similar measures are
frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in their evaluation of companies comparable to the Group, many
of which present an adjusted operating profit-related performance measure when reporting their results. Adjusted profit from operations
and adjusted operating margin have limitations as analytical tools. They are not presentations made in accordance with IFRS, are not
measures of financial condition or liquidity and should not be considered as alternatives to profit for the year, profit from operations
or operating margin as determined in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted profit from operations and adjusted operating margin are not
necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, you should not consider these performance
measures in isolation from, or as a substitute analysis for, BAT’s results of operations as determined in accordance with IFRS.
As Management assesses adjusted profit from operations at constant rates also on an organic basis within the Group's incentive schemes,
as reported within the Remuneration Report beginning in page 205, this measure is also presented excluding the inorganic performance of
certain businesses bought or sold in the period. The table below reconciles the Group’s profit from operations to adjusted profit from
operations, and to adjusted profit from operations at constant rates based on a re-translation of adjusted profit from operations for each year,
at the previous year’s exchange rates, and provides adjusted operating margin for the periods presented. Refer to note 2 in the Notes on the
Accounts for further discussion of the segmental results and for the reconciliation of adjusted profit from operations at current and constant
rates of exchange to segmental profit from operations and to Group profit for the years ended 31 December 2024, 2023 and 2022.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Profit/(loss) from operations 2,736 (15,751) 10,523
Restructuring and integration costs — (2) 771
Amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles 2,279 23,202 285
Charges in respect of an excise assessment in Romania 449 — —
Charges in respect of the ongoing litigation in Canada 6,203 — —
Impairment charges in respect of fixed assets, including the Group's head office in London 149 — —
Impairment of goodwill 39 4,614 —
Charges in connection with disposal of associate 6 — —
Credit in respect of calculation of excise on social contributions in Brazil — (148) —
Credit in respect of partial buy-out of the pension fund in the U.S. — — (16)
Charges in connection with planned disposal of subsidiaries — — 612
Charges in connection with disposal of subsidiaries — 351 (6)
Charges in respect of contributions on investment grants in Brazil — 47 —
Credit in respect of recovery of VAT on social contributions in Brazil — (19) (460)
Charges in respect of DOJ investigation and OFAC investigation 4 75 450
Credit in respect of settlement of historic litigation in relation to the Fox River (132) — —
Charges in respect of Nigeria FCCPC case — — 79
Other adjusting items (including Engle) 157 96 170
Adjusted profit from operations 11,890 12,465 12,408
Operating margin 10.6% -57.7% 38.1%
Adjusted operating margin 46.0% 45.7% 44.9%
Impact of translational foreign exchange 549 324 (782)
Adjusted profit from operations re-translated at constant rates 12,439 12,789 11,626
Change in adjusted profit from operations re-translated at constant rates -0.2% +3.1% +4.3%
Inorganic adjustments retranslated at constant rates — (223) (276)
Adjusted organic profit from operations re-translated at constant rates 12,439 12,566 11,350
Adjusted organic measures above are re-translated at constant rates. Adjusted organic profit from operations in 2023, translated at 2023
rates was £12,272 million. The movement in adjusted organic profit from operations, at constant rates of exchange in 2024 was up 1.4%.
400
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Reconciliations of Profit from Operations to Adjusted Organic Profit from Operations, Adjusted Organic Operating
Margin, Category Contribution, Category Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin,
at constant rates of exchange.
The following reconciliations are provided to support the definitions of the above measures as explained on pages 396 to 401.
They are also provided to demonstrate the reconciliation from respective IFRS measures to the non-GAAP equivalents, being measures
used within the incentives schemes in 2024 and proposed to be used in 2025.
Adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are new measures, introduced in 2024, with comparative movements to 2023 only.
2024
Group New Traditional
reported Categories Combustibles Oral Other
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 25,867 3,432 20,685 1,092 658
Impact of translational FX 1,284 119 1,063 31 71
Organic revenue (see page 395) 27,151 3,551 21,748 1,123 729
Profit from Operations 2,736
Operating margin 10.6%
Adjusting items (see page 400) 9,154
Impact of translational FX 549
Inorganic adjustments —
Adjusted organic profit from operations 12,439
Adjusted organic operating margin 45.8%
Other costs that are not attributable to categories 1,907
Category Contribution 14,346 251 13,012 863 220
Category Contribution margin 52.8% 7.1% 59.8% 76.8% 30.2%
Category spend (Marketing Investment and R&D) 3,900 1,725 2,052 60 63
Adjusted Gross profit 18,246 1,976 15,064 923 283
vs 2023 2.2% 19.8% 0.3% -1.6% 14.6%
Adjusted Gross margin 67.2% 55.7% 69.3% 82.2% 38.9%
Adjusted Gross profit at current rates 17,485 1,932 14,398 898 257
2023
Group New Traditional
reported Categories Combustibles Oral Other
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 27,283 3,347 22,108 1,163 665
Inorganic adjustments (479) (87) (389) 0 (3)
Organic revenue (see page 395) 26,804 3,260 21,719 1,163 662
Loss from Operations (15,751)
Operating margin -57.7%
Adjusting items (see page 400) 28,216
Inorganic adjustments (193)
Adjusted organic profit from operations 12,272
Adjusted organic operating margin 45.8%
Other costs that are not attributable to categories 1,904
Category Contribution 14,176 0 13,084 880 212
Category Contribution margin 52.9% 0.0% 60.2% 75.7% 32.0%
Category spend (Marketing Investment and R&D) 3,674 1,649 1,933 57 35
Adjusted Gross profit 17,850 1,649 15,017 937 247
Adjusted Gross margin 66.6% 50.6% 69.1% 80.6% 37.2%
at Constant FX
As reconciled on page 396, organic revenue from New Categories at constant rates of exchange in 2023 was £3,312 million. New
Categories adjusted gross profit in 2023 was £1,649 million, however when translated at 2022 rates of exchange (to be on a constant
rate basis) this would have been £1,779 million. Accordingly, New Categories adjusted gross margin at constant rates of exchange was, in
2023, 53.7%.
401
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
Adjusted Net Finance Costs and Adjusted Net Finance Costs at constant rates of exchange
Definition – Net finance costs before the impact of adjusting items and translational foreign exchange.
To supplement BAT’s performance presented in accordance with IFRS, the Group’s net finance costs are also presented before adjusting
items (as defined in note 1 in the Notes on the Accounts) and before the impact of translational foreign exchange. The Group’s
Management Board believes that adjusted net finance costs provides information that enables users of the financial statements to
compare the Group’s business performance across periods. The Group’s Management Board uses adjusted net finance costs as part of
the total assessment of the underlying performance of all the Group’s business interests. Adjusted net finance costs has limitations as
an analytical tool. It is not a presentation made in accordance with IFRS, is not a measure of financial condition or liquidity, and should not
be considered as an alternative to the Group’s net finance costs as determined in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted net finance costs is
not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, you should not consider this performance
measure in isolation from, or as a substitute analysis for, BAT’s results of operations as determined in accordance with IFRS.
The most directly comparable IFRS measure to adjusted net finance costs is net finance costs.
The table below reconciles the Group’s net finance costs to adjusted net finance costs, and to adjusted net finance costs at constant
rates based on a re-translation of adjusted net finance costs for each year, at the previous year’s exchange rates.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Finance costs (1,349) (2,081) (1,733)
Finance income 251 186 92
Net finance costs (1,098) (1,895) (1,641)
Less: Adjusting items in net finance costs (491) 96 34
Adjusted net finance costs (1,589) (1,799) (1,607)
Comprising:
Interest payable (1,759) (1,835) (1,648)
Interest and dividend income 251 186 92
Fair value changes - derivatives (90) (599) 473
Exchange differences 9 449 (524)
Adjusted net finance costs (1,589) (1,799) (1,607)
Impact of translation foreign exchange (27) 5
Adjusted net finance costs, at prior year’s exchange rates (constant rates) (1,616) (1,794)
Adjusted Share of Post-Tax Results of Associates and Joint Ventures
Definition – share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures before the impact of adjusting items.
To supplement BAT’s performance presented in accordance with IFRS, the Group’s share of post-tax results of associates and joint
ventures is also presented before adjusting items (as defined in note 1 in the Notes on the Accounts). The Group’s Management Board
believes that adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures provides information that enables users of the financial
statements to compare the Group’s business performance across periods. The Group’s Management Board uses adjusted share of post-
tax results from associates and joint ventures as part of the total assessment of the underlying performance of all the Group’s business
interests. Adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures has limitations as an analytical tool. It is not a presentation
made in accordance with IFRS, is not a measure of financial condition or liquidity, and should not be considered as an alternative to the
Group’s share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures as determined in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted share of post-tax
results of associates and joint ventures is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result,
you should not consider this performance measure in isolation from, or as a substitute analysis for, BAT’s results of operations as
determined in accordance with IFRS.
The most directly comparable IFRS measure to adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures is share of post-tax
results of associates and joint ventures.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Group’s share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,900 585 442
Issue of shares and changes in shareholding (18) (40) 3
Other exceptional items in ITC — (2) —
Gain on partial divestment of shares held in ITC (1,361) — —
Impairment of the Group’s associate in Yemen — — 18
Impairment in relation to Organigram (net of tax) — 34 59
Other — — 12
Adjusted Group’s share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 521 577 534
402
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Adjusted Taxation
Definition – Taxation before the impact of adjusting items.
BAT management monitors the Group’s adjusted taxation to assess BAT’s underlying tax (as defined in note 1 in the Notes on the
Accounts). Adjusted taxation is not a measure defined by IFRS. The table below provides the calculation of the Group’s adjusted taxation.
The Group’s Management Board believes that this additional measure is useful to the users of the financial statements, and is used by
BAT management as described above, because it excludes the tax on adjusting items and adjusting tax, thereby enhancing users’
understanding of underlying business performance.
Adjusted taxation has limitations as an analytical tool. It is not a presentation made in accordance with IFRS and should not be
considered as an alternative to the taxation as determined in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted taxation is not necessarily comparable to
similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, you should not consider this measure in isolation from, or as a substitute
analysis for, the Group’s taxation as determined in accordance with IFRS. The table below provides the calculation of the Group’s
adjusted taxation for the periods presented.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
UK corporation tax
– current year tax expense 15 20 2
– adjustments in respect of prior periods 9 12 (5)
Overseas tax
– current year tax expense 2,571 2,804 2,675
– adjustments in respect of prior periods 108 (25) 46
Current tax 2,703 2,811 2,718
Pillar Two income tax 79 — —
Total current tax 2,782 2,811 2,718
Deferred tax (2,425) (5,683) (240)
Taxation on ordinary activities 357 (2,872) 2,478
Adjusting items in taxation 157 73 27
Taxation on adjusting items 2,049 5,415 176
Adjusted tax charge 2,563 2,616 2,681
403
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
Underlying Tax Rate and Underlying Tax Rate at constant rates of exchange
Definition – Tax rate incurred before the impact of adjusting items and translational foreign exchange and to adjust for
the inclusion of the Group’s share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures within the Group’s pre-tax results.
BAT management monitors the Group’s underlying tax rate to assess the tax rate applicable to the Group’s underlying operations,
excluding the Group’s share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in BAT’s pre-tax results and adjusting items (as defined
in note 1 in the Notes on the Accounts). Underlying tax rate is not a measure defined by IFRS. The table below provides the calculation
of the Group’s effective tax rate as determined in accordance with IFRS with underlying tax rate for the periods presented. The Group’s
Management Board believes that this additional measure is useful to the users of the financial statements, and is used by BAT
management as described above, because it excludes the contribution from the Group’s associates, recognised after tax but within the
Group’s pre-tax profits, and adjusting items, thereby enhancing users’ understanding of underlying business performance.
Underlying tax rate has limitations as an analytical tool. It is not a presentation made in accordance with IFRS and should not be
considered as an alternative to the effective tax rate as determined in accordance with IFRS. Underlying tax rate is not necessarily
comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, you should not consider this measure in isolation from,
or as a substitute analysis for, the Group’s effective tax rate as determined in accordance with IFRS. The table below shows the
computation of the Group’s underlying tax rate for the periods presented and underlying tax rate at constant rates based on a
re-translation of underlying tax rate for each year, at the previous year’s exchange rates and the related reconciliation of profit before
taxation to adjusted profit before taxation, excluding associates and joint ventures, and taxation on ordinary activities to adjusted
taxation and adjusted taxation at constant rates of exchange.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Profit/(loss) before taxation 3,538 (17,061) 9,324
Less:
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures (1,900) (585) (442)
Adjusting items within profit from operations 9,154 28,216 1,885
Adjusting items within finance costs (491) 96 34
Adjusted profit before taxation, excluding associates and joint ventures 10,301 10,666 10,801
Impact of translational foreign exchange 522 329 (642)
Adjusted PBT, excluding associates and joint ventures at constant rates of exchange 10,823 10,995 10,159
Taxation on ordinary activities (357) 2,872 (2,478)
Adjusting items within taxation and taxation on adjusting items (2,206) (5,488) (203)
Adjusted taxation (2,563) (2,616) (2,681)
Impact of translational foreign exchange on adjusted taxation (106) (109) 131
Adjusted taxation at constant rates of exchange (2,669) (2,725) (2,550)
Effective tax rate 10.1% 16.8% 26.6%
Underlying tax rate 24.9% 24.5% 24.8%
Underlying tax rate (at constant rates) 24.7% 24.8% 25.1%
404
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share and Adjusted Organic Diluted Earnings Per Share, presented at both current
and constant rates of exchange
Definition – earnings per share before the impact of adjusting items and inorganic adjustments, after adjustments to the number
of shares outstanding for the impact of share option schemes whether they would be dilutive or not under statutory measures,
presented at the prior year’s rate of exchange.
BAT management monitors adjusted diluted EPS, a measure which removes the impact of adjusting items (as defined in note 1 in the
Notes on the Accounts) from diluted earnings per share. Adjusted diluted EPS is considered by the Group’s Management Board to be
useful to the users of the financial statements and is used by management within the Group’s incentive schemes, as reported within the
Remuneration Report beginning on page 205 and reported in note 11 in the Notes on the Accounts, as an indicator of diluted EPS before
adjusting items. Adjusted Diluted EPS is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted
diluted EPS has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be used in isolation from, or as a substitute for, diluted EPS as determined
in accordance with IFRS. The most directly comparable IFRS measure to adjusted diluted EPS is diluted EPS.
As Management assesses adjusted diluted earnings per share (at both current and constant rates of exchange) on an organic basis
within the Group's incentive schemes, as reported within the Remuneration Report beginning in page 205, this measure is also presented
excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses bought or sold in the period.
The table below shows the computation of adjusted diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS at constant exchange rates for the periods presented.
For the year ended 31 December (pence)
2024 2023 2022
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 136.0 (646.6) 291.9
Effect of amortisation and impairment of goodwill, trademarks and similar intangibles 80.7 1,006.1 9.6
Effect of impairment charges in respect of fixed assets, including the Group's head office and
4.5 — —
the decision to exit Cuba
Effect of settlement of historical litigation in relation to the Fox River (4.9) — —
Net effect of Excise and VAT cases — (5.7) (17.1)
Effect of the ongoing litigation in Canada 205.0 — —
Effect of disposal of subsidiaries — 24.5 (0.3)
Effect of Romania and Brazil other taxes 20.1 1.4 —
Effect of charges in respect of DOJ and OFAC investigations 0.2 3.4 19.9
Effect of planned disposal of subsidiaries — (8.7) 26.4
Effect of restructuring and integration costs — (0.2) 28.9
Effect of other adjusting items in operating profit 5.3 3.3 8.7
Effect of adjusting items in net finance costs (17.0) 3.1 1.2
Effect of gains related to the partial divestment of shares held in ITC (59.5) — —
Effect of associates’ adjusting items (0.8) (0.4) 4.1
Effect of adjusting items in respect of deferred taxation (12.0) (4.4) (1.9)
Adjusting items in tax 4.9 1.2 —
Impact of dilution* (1.4)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 362.5 375.6 371.4
Impact of translational foreign exchange 19.4 10.8 (23.3)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share, at constant exchange rates 381.9 386.4 348.1
Inorganic adjustments, at constant rates — (8.3)
Adjusted organic diluted earnings per share, at constant exchange rates 381.9 378.1
For the year ended 31 December (pence)
2024 2023 2022
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (see above) 362.5 375.6 371.4
Inorganic adjustments — (7.1) (12.1)
Adjusted organic diluted earnings per share 362.5 368.5 359.3
Adjusted organic diluted earnings per share in 2023, translated at 2023 rates was 368.5p. Adjusted organic diluted earnings per share in
2024, translated at the prior year's exchange rate was 381.9p. Accordingly, the movement in adjusted organic diluted earnings per share,
at constant rates of exchange in 2024 was an increase of 3.6%.
Adjusted organic diluted earnings per share in 2022, translated at 2022 rates was 359.3p. Adjusted organic diluted earnings per share in
2023, translated at the prior year's exchange rate was 378.1p. Accordingly, the movement in adjusted organic diluted earnings per share,
at constant rates of exchange in 2023 was an increase of 5.2%.
Note:
* In 2023, the Group reported a loss for the year. Following the requirements of IAS 33, the impact of share options would be antidilutive and is therefore excluded, for 2023, from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IFRS. For remuneration purposes, and reflective of the Group's positive earnings on an adjusted basis,
Management included the dilutive effect of share options in calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share.
405
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
Operating Cash Flow Conversion Ratio and Organic Operating Cash Flow Conversion Ratio
Definition – net cash generated from operating activities before the impact of adjusting items and dividends from associates
and excluding taxes paid and net capital expenditure, as a proportion of adjusted profit from operations. It is also presented
excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses bought or sold in the period.
Operating cash flow conversion ratio is used by Management within the Group’s incentive schemes as reported within the
Remuneration Report beginning on page 205. Operating cash flow conversion ratio has limitations as an analytical tool. It is not a
presentation made in accordance with IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to measures of liquidity or financial position
as determined in accordance with IFRS. Operating cash flow conversion ratio is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures
used by other companies.
As Management assesses operating cash flow conversion ratio on an organic basis within the Group's incentive schemes, as reported
within the Remuneration Report beginning on page 205, this measure is also presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain
businesses bought or sold in the period.
The table below shows the computation of operating cash flow conversion ratio for the periods presented.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,125 10,714 10,394
Cash related to adjusting items 824 156 466
Dividends from associates (406) (506) (394)
Tax paid 1,854 2,622 2,537
Net capital expenditure (434) (487) (599)
Other 1 — (1)
Operating cash flow 11,964 12,499 12,403
Adjusted profit from operations* 11,890 12,465 12,408
Cash conversion ratio** 370% -68% 99%
Operating cash flow conversion ratio 101% 100% 100%
Operating cash flow 11,964 12,499 12,403
Inorganic adjustments — (72)
Organic operating cash flow 11,964 12,427
Adjusted profit from operations* 11,890 12,465 12,408
Inorganic adjustments — (193)
Adjusted organic profit from operations 11,890 12,272
Organic operating cash flow conversion ratio 101% 101%
Notes:
* See page 400 for a reconciliation of profit from operations to adjusted profit from operations.
** Net cash generated from operating activities as a percentage of profit from operations.
406
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Adjusted Cash Generated from Operations (at Current and Constant Rates of Exchange) and Adjusted Organic Cash
Generated from Operations (at constant rates of exchange)
Definition – net cash generated from operating activities before the impact of adjusting items (litigation), excluding dividends
received from associates, and after dividends paid to non-controlling interests, net interest paid and net capital expenditure,
and translational foreign exchange. It is also presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses bought
or sold in the period.
Adjusted cash generated from operations is a measure of cash flow which is used within the Group’s incentive schemes as reported
within the Remuneration Report beginning on page 205.Adjusted cash generated from operations has limitations as an analytical tool. It
is not a presentation made in accordance with IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to measures of liquidity or financial
position as determined in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted cash generated from operations is not necessarily comparable to similarly
titled measures used by other companies.
As Management assesses adjusted cash generated from operations (at constant rates of exchange) these measures also on an organic
basis within the Group's incentive schemes, as reported within the Remuneration Report beginning in page 205, this measure is also
presented excluding the inorganic performance of certain businesses bought or sold in the period.
The table below shows the computation of adjusted cash generated from operations for the periods presented.
For the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,125 10,714 10,394
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (121) (105) (158)
Net interest paid (1,669) (1,763) (1,588)
Net capital expenditure (434) (487) (599)
Other — 1 —
Effect of deferral of U.S. tax, in line with the federal disaster declaration in central and western
North Carolina (700) — —
Cash related to adjusting items within adjusted cash generated from operations 360 (49) 231
Other costs excluding litigation and restructuring costs 399 19 3
Dividends from associates (406) (506) (394)
Adjusted cash generated from operations 7,554 7,824 7,889
Impact of translational foreign exchange 401 97 (484)
Adjusted cash generated from operations, at constant exchange rates 7,955 7,921 7,405
Inorganic adjustments, at constant exchange rates — (2)
Adjusted organic cash generated from operations, at constant exchange rates 7,955 7,919
In 2024, the Group deferred tax payments in the U.S. from 2024 to 2025 totalling US$895 million (£700 million). For the purposes of the
2024 and 2025 adjusted cash generated from operations metric, which is included in the Group's incentive schemes, the impact of
deferral has not been included in the calculation as it does not reflect the cash generated by the normal operations of the Group.
407
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
Net Debt
Definition – total borrowings, including related derivatives, less cash and cash equivalents and current investments
held at fair value.
The Group uses net debt to assess its financial capacity. Net debt is not a measure defined by IFRS. The most directly comparable IFRS
measure to net debt is total borrowings. The Group’s Management Board believes that this additional measure, which is used internally
to assess the Group’s financial capacity, is useful to the users of the financial statements in helping them to see how business financing
has changed over the year. Net debt has limitations as an analytical tool. It is not a presentation made in accordance with IFRS and
should not be considered as an alternative to total borrowings or total liabilities determined in accordance with IFRS. Net debt is not
necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, it does not exclude restricted cash (as set
out in note 21 in the Notes on the Accounts) in the calculation. As a result, you should not consider this measure in isolation from, or as
a substitute analysis for, the Group’s measures of financial position or liquidity as determined in accordance with IFRS. A reconciliation
of borrowings to net debt is provided in note 23 in the Notes on the Accounts.
408
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
This page is intentionally left blank
409
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Non-GAAP Measures
Continued
Adjusted Return on Capital Employed
Definition – Profit from operations, excluding adjusting items and including dividends from associates and joint ventures,
as a proportion of average total assets less current liabilities in the period.
Adjusted ROCE will be included within the Group's incentive schemes, as reported within the Remuneration Report beginning on
page 205.
Adjusted ROCE is not a measure defined by IFRS. The most directly comparable IFRS measure to adjusted ROCE is profit from
operations as a proportion of total assets less current liabilities. Adjusted ROCE has limitations as an analytical tool. It is not a
presentation made in accordance with IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to other measures that may be derived from
the financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Adjusted ROCE is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The definition of adjusting items is
provided in note 1 in the Notes on the Accounts. The table below reconciles profit from operations to adjusted profit from operations
including dividends from associates and joint ventures and provides the constituent parts of average capital employed.
As of the year ended 31 December (£m)
2024 2023 2022
Profit/(loss) from operations 2,736 (15,751) 10,523
Adjusting items 9,154 28,216 1,885
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 406 506 394
Adjusted profit from operations, inclusive of dividends from associates and joint ventures 12,296 12,971 12,802
Total Assets 118,899 118,716 153,546
Current Liabilities 18,743 15,673 17,853
Capital employed at balance sheet date 100,156 103,043 135,693
Average capital 101,600 119,368 128,957
Adjusted ROCE 12.1% 10.9% 9.9%
Results on a Constant Translational Currency Basis
Movements in foreign exchange rates have impacted the Group’s financial results. The Group’s Management Board reviews certain
of its results, including revenue, revenue growth from New Categories, adjusted profit from operations and adjusted diluted earnings
per share, at constant rates of exchange. The Group calculates these financial measures at constant rates of exchange based on a
re-translation, at prior year exchange rates, of the current year’s results of the Group and, where applicable, its geographic segments.
The Group does not adjust for the normal transactional gains and losses in profit from operations that are generated by exchange
movements. Although the Group does not believe that these measures are a substitute for IFRS measures, the Group’s Management
Board does believe that such results excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and the performance of businesses sold or acquired
that may significantly affect the users understanding of the Group’s performance when compared across periods, as applicable provide
additional useful information to users of the financial statements regarding the Group’s operating performance on a local currency basis.
Accordingly, the constant rates of exchange financial measures appearing in the discussion of the Group results of operations (beginning
on page 48) should be read in conjunction with the information provided in note 2 in the Notes on the Accounts.
In 2024, 2023 and 2022, results were affected by translational exchange rate movements.
In 2024, at the prevailing exchange rates, reported revenue declined by 5.2%, revenue from New Categories increased by 2.5% and
adjusted profit from operations decreased by 4.6% versus 2023. At constant rates of exchange, reported revenue would have decreased
by 0.5%, revenue from New Categories would have increased by 6.1% and adjusted profit from operations would have decreased by
0.2%. This lower performance at prevailing exchange rates reflects the negative translational impact as a result of the relative strength of
sterling.
In 2023, at the prevailing exchange rates, revenue decreased by 1.3%, revenue from New Categories increased by 15.6% and adjusted
profit from operations increased by 0.5% versus 2022. At constant rates of exchange, revenue would have increased by 1.6%, revenue
from New Categories would have increased by 17.8% and adjusted profit from operations would have increased by 3.1%. This lower
performance at prevailing exchange rates reflects the negative translational impact as a result of the relative strength of sterling.
In 2024, 2023 and 2022, adjusted diluted earnings per share was affected by translational exchange rate movements.
In 2024, the adjusted diluted earnings per share of 362.5p, a decrease of 3.5%, would, when translated at 2023 exchange rates, have been
381.9p, an increase of 1.7%. This lower performance, in 2024, at prevailing exchange rates, reflects the negative translational impact as a
result of the relative strength of sterling.
In 2023, the adjusted diluted earnings per share of 375.6p, an increase of 1.1%, would, when translated at 2022 exchange rates, have been
386.4p, an increase of 4.0%. This lower performance, in 2023, at prevailing exchange rates, reflects the negative translational impact as a
result of the relative strength of sterling.
410
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Employees
As at 31 December 2024, the number of persons employed by the Group was 48,989 worldwide. The Group believes that its labour
relations are good.
Certain temporary employees are included in the below figures. The number of such temporary employees is approximately 464 in 2024
and largely relates to seasonal workers within operations.
The following table sets forth the number of Group employees by region in 2024, 2023 and 2022.
As at 31 December
Region (number of employees worldwide) 2024 2023 2022
U.S. 4,192 3,763 4,152
AME 31,347 30,100 33,175
APMEA 13,450 12,862 13,070
Total employees 48,989 46,725 50,397
Note:
1. Included within the employee numbers for AME are certain employees in different locations in respect of central functions. Some of the costs of these employees are allocated
or charged to the various regions and markets in the Group.
411
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Additional Disclosures on
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Additional Disclosures on Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Group’s cash inflows derive principally from its operating activities. They are supplemented when required by cash flows from
financing activities, typically to support general corporate requirements but also, from time to time, to support acquisitions. The principal
sources of liquidity for the Group are cash flows generated from the operating business and proceeds from issuances of debt securities
described below under ‘capital resources’.
The Board reviews and agrees the overall treasury policies and procedures, delegating appropriate oversight to the Chief Financial
Officer and the treasury function. The treasury policies include a set of financing principles and key performance indicators. The Group’s
treasury position is monitored by a Corporate Finance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. Treasury operations are subject
to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
Capital Expenditure
Gross capital expenditures include purchases of property, plant and equipment and purchases of certain intangibles. The Group’s gross
capital expenditures for 2024, 2023 and 2022 were £581 million, £541 million and £630 million, respectively, representing investment in
the Group’s global operational infrastructure (including, but not limited to, the manufacturing network, trade marketing and IT systems).
The Group expects gross capital expenditures in 2025 of approximately £650 million, representing the ongoing investment in the Group’s
operational infrastructure, including the continued investment in New Categories. This is expected to be funded by the Group’s cash
flows and existing facilities.
Hedging Instruments
As discussed in note 19 in the Notes on the Accounts, the Group hedges its exposure to interest rate movements and currency
movements. BAT’s cash flow hedges are principally in respect of sales or purchases of inventory and certain debt instruments. A certain
number of forward foreign currency contracts were used to manage the currency profile of external borrowings. Interest rate swaps
have been used to manage the interest rate profile of external borrowings, while cross-currency swaps have been used to manage the
currency profile of external borrowings.
Capital Resources
Policy
The Group utilises cash pooling and zero balancing bank account structures in addition to intercompany loans and borrowings to ensure
that there is the maximum mobilisation of cash within the Group. The key objectives of treasury in respect of cash and cash equivalents
are to protect the principal value of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, to concentrate cash at the centre to minimise the required
long-term debt issuance, including perpetual hybrid debt treated as an equity instrument, and to optimise the yield earned. The amount
of debt the Group issues is determined by forecasting the net debt requirement after the mobilisation of cash. Subsidiary companies are
funded by share capital and retained earnings, loans from the central finance companies on commercial terms or through local
borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies. All contractual borrowing covenants have been met and none are expected
to inhibit the Group’s operations or funding plans.
Borrowings
The following table sets out the Group’s long- and short-term borrowings as of the dates indicated:
As of 31 December (£m)1
Currency Maturity dates Interest rates at 31 December 2024 2024 2023 2022
Eurobonds2 Euro 2025 to 2045 1.3% to 5.4% 5,236 5,569 7,149
UK sterling 2025 to 2055 2.1% to 6.0% 2,291 3,097 3,884
Swiss franc 2026 1.4% 221 234 226
Bonds issued pursuant
to rules under the U.S.
Securities Act
(as amended)2 US dollar 2025 to 2053 1.7% to 8.1% 28,268 29,913 30,152
Commercial paper2 — — 27
Other loans — 100 875
Bank loans 211 216 203
Bank overdrafts 138 103 106
Finance leases 585 498 517
Total 36,950 39,730 43,139
Notes:
1. The financial data above has been extracted from the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
2. The issuers of these debt securities are B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c., B.A.T Capital Corporation, Reynolds American Inc., or R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, as applicable. British
American Tobacco p.l.c. is the ultimate guarantor in each case.
Perpetual hybrid bonds issued by the Company have been classified as equity and therefore excluded from borrowings.
* Eurobond with a maturity date in 2021 that was repaid in 2021.
412
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations
The Group has no significant off-balance sheet arrangements. The Group has contractual obligations to make future payments on debt
agreements. In the normal course of business, the Group enters into contractual arrangements where the Group commits to future
purchases of services from unaffiliated parties and related parties.
The Group’s undiscounted contractual obligations as of 31 December 2024 were as follows:
Payments due by period (£m)
Less than
Total 1 Year 1–3 Years 3–5 Years Thereafter
Long-term notes and other borrowings, exclusive of interest1 35,800 3,606 5,436 5,073 21,685
Interest payments related to long-term notes1 565 565 — — —
Lease liabilities 585 141 220 87 137
Purchase obligations2 863 792 71 — —
Total cash obligations 37,813 5,104 5,727 5,160 21,822
Notes:
1. For more information about the Group’s long-term debt, see note 23 in the Notes on the Accounts.
2. Purchase obligations primarily include commitments to acquire tobacco leaf. Purchase orders for the purchase of other raw materials and other goods and services are not included
in the table, as the Group’s operating subsidiaries are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders
typically represent authorisations to purchase rather than binding agreements.
The table above does not include any amounts that the Group may pay to fund its retirement benefit plans as the timing and amount
of any such future funding are unknown and dependent on, among other things, the future performance of defined benefit pension plan
assets, interest rate assumptions and other factors. The net retirement benefit scheme assets totalled £117 million as of 31 December
2024, which is net of pension assets of £6,612 million. The Group expects to be required to contribute £36 million to its defined benefit
plans during 2025. See note 15 in the Notes on the Accounts for further information.
The above table also excludes any amounts in relation to service contracts which are disclosed in note 31 in the Notes on the Accounts.
The Group has £67 million of future contractual commitments (2023: £60 million) related to property, plant and equipment and £5 million
of future contractual commitments (2023: £2 million) related to intangible assets.
413
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Summary of Group Risk Factors
The following is a summary of some of the risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any one of which, alone or in combination with other
events or circumstances, may materially adversely affect the Group’s results of operations and financial condition. You should read this
summary together with the Group Principal Risks section from pages 155 to 162 and the more detailed description of each risk factor
contained below. One of the principal risks "Inability to develop, commercialise and deliver the New Categories strategy" is an
amalgamation of various risk factors across all four Group Risk Factor categories of Business execution and supply chain, Legal,
regulatory and compliance, Economic and financial and Product pipeline, commercialisation and intellectual property.
Business execution and supply chain risks
–Competition from illicit trade.
–Geopolitical tensions that have the potential to disrupt the Group’s business in multiple markets.
–Injury, illness or death in the workplace.
–Disruption to the Group’s data and information technology systems, including by cyber attack or the malicious manipulation
or disclosure of confidential or sensitive information.
–Failure to meet current or future New Categories demand.
–Failure of a financial counterparty.
–Exposure to unavailability of, and price volatility, in raw materials and increased costs of employment.
–Failure to retain key personnel or to attract and retain skilled talent.
–Disruption to the supply chain and distribution channels.
–Failure to uphold the high standard of sustainability management, performance and reporting.
–Failure to successfully design, implement and sustain an integrated framework and operating model for Artificial Intelligence (AI).
–Inability to obtain adequate supplies of tobacco leaf.
–Exposure to product contamination.
–Failure to successfully design, implement and sustain an integrated technical landscape and ERP strategy.
–Failure to manage the Group’s climate change-related risk.
–Failure to manage the Group’s circular economy risk.
–Impact of a pandemic on the performance of the Group.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risks
–Exposure to, the enactment of, proposals for, or rumours of regulation that significantly impairs the Group’s ability to communicate,
differentiate, market or launch its products and/or the lack of appropriate regulation for New Categories.
–Adverse implications of EU legislation on single-use plastics that will result in on-pack environmental warnings and financial
implications relating to Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR).
–Exposure to litigation, regulatory action or criminal investigations on tobacco, nicotine, New Categories and other issues.
–Significant and/or unexpected increases or structural changes in tobacco and nicotine-related taxes.
–Failure to comply with health and safety and environmental laws.
–Exposure to unfavourable tax rulings.
–Exposure to potential liability under competition or antitrust laws.
–Failure to establish and maintain adequate controls and procedures to comply with applicable securities, corporate governance
and compliance regulations.
–Lack of external recognition and acceptance of the foundational science and inability to effectively communicate to stakeholders
about the potential health impact of our New Category products.
–Insufficient product stewardship and failure to comply with product regulations.
–Failure to uphold high standards of corporate behaviour, including through unintended or malicious breach of anti-bribery and anti-
corruption and other anti-financial crime laws.
–Unexpected legislative changes to corporate income tax laws.
–Imposition of sanctions under sanctions regimes or similar international, regional or national measures.
–Failure to uphold New Categories marketing practices.
–Loss or misuse of personal data through a failure to comply with the European General Data Protection Regulation, the UK Data
Protection Act 2018, e-Privacy laws and other privacy legislation governing the processing of personal data.
Economic and financial risks
–Foreign exchange rate exposures.
–Inability to obtain price increases and exposure to risks from excessive price increases and value chain erosion.
–Effects of declining consumption of legitimate tobacco products and a tough competitive environment.
–Funding, liquidity and interest rate risks.
–Failure to achieve growth through mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and other transactions.
–Unforeseen underperformance in key global markets.
–Increases in net liabilities under the Group’s retirement benefit schemes.
Product pipeline, commercialisation and Intellectual Property risks
–Inability to predict consumers’ changing behaviours and launch innovative products that offer adult tobacco and nicotine consumers
meaningful value-added differentiation.
–Exposure to risks associated with intellectual property rights, including the failure to identify, protect and prevent infringement of
the Group’s intellectual property rights and potential infringement of, or the failure to retain licences to use, third-party intellectual
property rights.
414
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Risk Factors
Business Execution and Supply Chain Risks
Risk: Competition from illicit trade
Description
Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, diversion of genuine Group products, products that are smuggled illegally across borders,
and locally manufactured products, which do not comply with applicable regulations and/or in which applicable taxes are evaded,
represent a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry, including New Categories products. Factors such as
increasing levels of taxation and inflation, economic downturn and increased cost of living, lack of law enforcement, appropriate penalties
and weak border control are encouraging more adult tobacco and New Categories consumers to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco and
New Categories products and are providing greater rewards for counterfeiters and smugglers. Regulatory restrictions such as plain
packaging or graphic health warnings, display bans, flavour or ingredient restrictions and increased compliance costs further
disadvantage legitimate industry participants by providing competitive advantages to illicit manufacturers and distributors of illicit
tobacco and New Categories products.
Impact
Illicit trade has an overall negative impact on society, deprives governments of revenues and encourages various forms of crime such as
terrorism, money laundering and human trafficking. Above all, illicit trade has an adverse effect on the Group’s overall business and
reputation. Illicit trade can damage brand equity, which could undermine the Group’s investment in Trade Marketing and Distribution,
increase operational costs where products may become commoditised, make it more difficult to adhere to underage prevention and
decrease volumes sold. Although our AIT policy is an integral part of our SoBC, representing our internal commitment in the fight
against illicit trade and sets out the controls all Group companies must have in place and adhere to, it cannot prevent all instances of
illicit trade.
Furthermore, counterfeit products (especially New Categories) and other illicit products could harm consumers, damages goodwill
and/or the category (with lower volumes and reduced profits), and could potentially lead to misplaced claims against BAT, further
regulation and a failure to deliver our corporate harm reduction objective.
Finally, as the Group has contractual and legislative obligations to prevent the diversion of our products into illicit channels, actual
breaches of the obligations to prevent product diversion into illicit channels can lead to substantial fines in the forms of seizure
payments and legislative penalties (including financial penalties). Additionally, actual and perceived breaches may result in the risk of
reputational damage (including negative perceptions of our governance and our ESG credentials) from Group products being found in
illicit channels. Although in practice, the proportion of illicit trade which can be traced back to BAT products is exceptionally low.
Risk: Geopolitical tensions that have the potential to disrupt the Group’s business in multiple markets
Description
The Group’s operations and financial condition are influenced by the economic and political situations in the markets and regions in
which it has operations, which are often unpredictable and outside of its control. Some markets in which the Group operates face the
threat of civil unrest and can be subject to frequent changes in regime. In others, there is a risk of terrorism, conflict, global health crisis,
war, organised crime or other criminal activity. The Group is also exposed to economic policy changes in jurisdictions in which it operates, for
example state nationalisation of assets and withdrawal from international / bilateral trade agreements including the introduction of tariffs or
trade embargoes. In addition, some markets maintain trade barriers or adopt policies that favour domestic producers, preventing or
restricting the Group’s sales.
Impact
Deterioration of socio-economic or political conditions could lead to injury or loss of life, restricted mobility, loss of assets and/or denial
of access to BAT sites that reduce the Group’s access to particular markets or may disrupt the Group’s operations, such as supply
chain, or manufacturing or distribution capabilities. Such disruptions, including attacks on shipping routes in the Red Sea, may result in
increased taxes and/or other costs due to the requirement for more complex supply chain and security arrangements, the need to build
new facilities or to maintain inefficient facilities, or in a reduction of the Group’s sales volume. Further, there may be reputational
damage, including negative perceptions of our governance and protection of our people and our ESG credentials.
Risk: Injury, illness or death in the workplace
Description
The Group considers the safety of its employees and other individuals working with it as of utmost importance and fundamental
concern. Loss of life, serious injury, disability or illness to employees or individuals due to accident, geopolitical tension or other events
may occur during the research, manufacturing, distribution or retail of the Group’s products.
Impact
Past events have led, and future events may lead to serious injuries, ill health, disability or loss of life to employees and individuals who
work with the Group. This may result in reputational damage, difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff, exposure to civil and criminal
liability, prosecution and fines and penalties. These impacts could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and
financial condition and have a negative impact on its ESG credentials.
415
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Business Execution and Supply Chain Risks continued
Risk: Disruption to the Group’s data and information technology systems, including by cyber attack or the malicious
manipulation or disclosure of confidential or sensitive information
Description
The Group relies on information and digital technology (IDT) systems and networks to conduct core activities, such as manufacturing,
distribution, marketing, customer service, R&D and financial and management reporting, amongst other core activities. There is a risk
that these systems (of the Group or of a third party within the Group's supply chain) may be disrupted by intentional or unintentional
actions that may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information, result in the inappropriate disclosure of
confidential information, disrupt the operations of the Group, or may lead to false or misleading statements being made about the Group.
The external threat levels continue to rise with attackers becoming increasingly sophisticated, equipped with AI-powered tools, and
collateral damage from nation state cyber-attacks becomes a leading cause of cyber incidents. The development and implementation of
AI in our products and/or supply chain will have an impact on the cyber security threat landscape and may increase the exposure to cyber
threats in general.
Impact
Management recognises that cyber security threats could pose significant risks to the Group’s business, reputation, financial condition,
and competitive position, and to the safety and privacy of our consumers, employees and other stakeholders.
Any disruption to IDT systems related to the Group’s operations could adversely affect its business and result in financial, legal and
reputational impacts. Any delays or failure to detect or respond to attempts to gain unauthorised access to the Group’s information
technology systems can lead to a loss in confidentiality, integrity or availability of systems and/or data.
A security incident with respect to IDT systems may result in:
–Loss or theft of confidential business information: Unauthorized access to trade secrets and sensitive commercial data can dilute the
Group's strategic influence, affecting investments and operations. This could materially impact regulatory compliance and lead to a
loss of competitive edge.
–Personal data breach incidents: Exposure of personally identifiable data can lead to legal, reputational, and compliance issues, along
with potential loss of sales, consumers, and market share.
–Operational disruption: Cyber incidents disrupting R&D, manufacturing, distribution, or technology services can cause business
interruptions and health and safety risks, leading to production halts and revenue loss.
–Inappropriate use of IDT systems to enable fraud, or theft of product, technology, or monetary resources.
–Loss of digital trust: Cyber incidents compromising the Group's digital presence can damage the brand and diminish consumer trust,
potentially affecting sales and strategic timelines.
–Third-party cyber risks: Cyber incidents within partner or supplier networks can lead to business interruptions, supply chain issues,
data loss, or the spread of malicious activities to the Group, necessitating robust third-party risk management.
Risk: Failure to meet current or future New Categories demand
Description
The New Categories supply chain is a multi-tiered and complex environment with reliance on multiple factors, such as third-party
suppliers’ ability to upscale production in order to meet demand while maintaining product quality, dependency on single suppliers at
various points in the chain and the Group’s ability to build adequate consumables production capacity in line with product demand.
The geographical spread of suppliers and customers exposes the Group to political and economic issues such as trade wars, which
may compromise the New Categories supply chain. Given the developing nature of the New Categories portfolio, there is also an
enhanced risk that some products may not meet product quality and safety standards or may be subject to regulatory changes, leading
to product recalls, which we have experienced in the past, or bans of certain ingredients or products. In addition, the New Categories
supply chain may be vulnerable to changes in local legislation related to liquid nicotine that could increase import duties. Furthermore,
the New Categories supply chain includes the development of sensitive trade secrets jointly with external design partners, which
carries the risk of exposure of innovations to competitors.
Impact
Vulnerabilities in the New Categories supply chain may impact the Group’s ability to maintain supply and meet the current and future
demand requirements across the New Categories portfolio, potentially resulting in significant reputational harm and financial impact
that may negatively affect the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic
growth plans. Over-forecasting may also lead to write-offs and negatively impact working capital. The design of New Categories
devices may also prevent the scaling of commercial manufacturing, which will either restrict supply or increase the costs of production.
Further, there may be loss of investors’ confidence in sustainability performance, including failure to deliver our corporate purpose of
harm reduction.
In addition, changes in local legislation related to liquid nicotine import duties may increase New Categories production costs, which
may increase End Market pricing and reduce demand. Furthermore, the exposure of sensitive trade secrets can lead to competitive
disadvantages and further negatively impact the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to
deliver on its strategic growth plans.
416
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Failure of a financial counterparty
Description
The Group relies on transactions with a variety of financial counterparties to manage the Group’s business and financial risks. In the
event that any of these counterparties fails, payments due from such counterparties, such as under hedging or insurance contracts,
may not be recovered. In addition, failure of a transactional banking party may lead to the loss of cash balances and disruption to
payment systems involving such counterparty.
Impact
The inability to recover payments due from one or more failed financial counterparties or the loss of cash balances may cause
significant financial loss and have an adverse impact on the Group’s results of operations, financial condition and financial risk profile.
In addition, the loss of cash balances or a disruption to payment systems may cause disruption to the Group’s ongoing operations
and ability to pay its creditors and suppliers.
Risk: Exposure to unavailability of, and price volatility in, raw materials and increased costs of employment
Description
The availability and price of various commodities required in the manufacture of the Group’s products fluctuate. Raw materials and
other inputs used in the Group’s business, such as wood pulp and energy, are commodities that are subject to price volatility caused
by numerous factors, including inflation, political influence, introduction of new or higher tariffs or trade embargos, market fluctuations
and natural disasters.
Similarly, the Group is exposed to the risk of an increase above inflation in employment costs, including due to governmental action
to introduce or increase minimum wages. Employment and health care law changes and the increase in inflation may also increase
the cost of provided health care and other employment benefits expenses.
Impact
Restricted availability and price volatility of commodities may result in supply shortages and unexpected increases in costs for raw
materials and packaging for the Group’s products, which may affect the Group’s results of operations and financial condition.
The Group has experienced some of these effects in the last several years, including higher cost of direct materials due to energy
scarcity, increase in transportation rates and commodity prices, as well as increases in utility costs, all of which have led to increases in
overall cost. While inflation also caused an increase in employment costs, this did not have a material adverse effect to the Group's
profitability. However, we cannot assure that this will not be materially affecting the Group's profitability in the future.
The Group has not always been able to, and in the future may not be able to, increase prices to offset increased costs without suffering
reduced sales volume and revenue. In the absence of compensating for increased costs through pricing, significant increases in raw
material, packaging and employment costs above inflation will impact product margins, leading to lower profits and negatively affecting
the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
Risk: Failure to retain key personnel or to attract and retain skilled talent
Description
The Group relies on a number of highly experienced employees with detailed knowledge of the tobacco and nicotine industry, other
areas of focus for the Group (including New Categories and Beyond Nicotine). Similarly, the Group is dependent on its ability to identify,
attract, develop and retain such qualified personnel in the future. The Group is also dependent on external hires to ensure it is equipped
with the right new business-critical capabilities and knowledge to accelerate transformation. BAT anticipates that this trend will
continue and therefore the ability to continue to build awareness, increase reach and ultimately attract the new target audience
remains a primary focus.
There are shifts in the career development expectations of employees, from a traditional one company long tenure approach to a much
shorter tenure focused on critical experiences and challenges. Furthermore, broader economic and sustainability trends (e.g. Group
delivery against sustainability related ambitions, volatility in remuneration outcomes linked to Group’s share price) may impact the
Group’s ability to retain key employees and may increase competition for highly talented employees. Whilst the Group is enhancing its
effort on retaining critical capabilities and knowledge, building the right leadership behaviour and organisational culture, and focusing
on employee development and engagement, the retention risk of experienced employees remains an area requiring management
attention. Furthermore, the Group may fail to introduce appropriately leveraged and differentiated pay-for-performance for key
employees, which exacerbates the risk of not retaining such key personnel and attracting appropriately skilled talent in the future. This
also exposes the Group to the risk of not being able to conduct future succession planning successfully.
Impact
If the Group is unable to retain its existing key employees, fails to attract and retain skilled talent in the future, critical positions may be
left vacant, resulting in a failure to retain and advance critical business knowledge required for its transformation, as well as adversely impacting
the Group’s results of operations, financial condition and achieving broader business objectives, such as its sustainability ambitions.
High voluntary employee turnover may also reduce organisational performance and productivity, leading to further adverse impact
on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
417
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Business Execution and Supply Chain Risks continued
Risk: Disruption to the supply chain and distribution channels
Description
The Group has adopted an increasingly global approach to managing its supply chain, including distribution channels. Disruption to the
Group's supply chain may be caused by various factors, including, but not limited to, disruption to suppliers’ operations or to distribution
channels, and the deterioration in the financial condition of a trading partner. Such disruption may also be caused by a cyber event, a
global health crisis, political tensions, strikes, riots, civil commotion, a major fire, severe weather conditions or other natural disasters
which affect manufacturing or other facilities of the Group’s operating subsidiaries or those of their suppliers and distributors. In certain
geographic areas where the Group operates, insurance coverage may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
Coverage may be subject to limitations, or the Group may be unable to recover damages from its insurers. The Group foresees a
heightened level of risk of disruption in our New Categories supply chain because it is multi-tiered and complex in sourcing and
distribution.
Disruption may also be caused by spread of infectious disease (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) or by a deterioration/shortage in labour
or union relations, disputes or work stoppages or other labour-related developments within the Group or its suppliers and distributors.
In addition, the Group’s operating subsidiaries may not be able to establish or maintain relationships on favourable commercial terms
with their suppliers and distributors, or at all. In some markets, distribution of the Group’s products occurs through third-party monopoly
channels, often licensed by governments. The Group may be unable to renew these third-party supplier and distribution agreements
on satisfactory terms for many different reasons, including government regulations or sustainability considerations. There are also some
product categories for which the Group does not have surplus production capacity or where substitution between different production
plants is impractical - this may cause further disruption to our supply chain. Consolidation of global suppliers and certain distributors that
control large geographies may reduce the Group’s availability of alternatives and negatively impact the Group’s negotiating power with
key suppliers and distributors. These risks are particularly relevant in jurisdictions where the Group’s manufacturing facilities are more
concentrated or for certain product categories where production is more centralised.
Impact
Any disruption to the Group’s supply chain and distribution channels could have an adverse effect on the results of operations and
financial conditions of the Group through failures to meet shipment demand, contract disputes, increased costs, loss of market share
and inability to reinvest into New Category and support harm reduction agenda and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic
growth plans.
Risk: Failure to uphold the high standard of sustainability management, performance and reporting
Description
Stakeholder expectations of, and regulatory requirements for, the Group’s sustainability management, performance and reporting are
continually evolving. For example, the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) has introduced new reporting obligations.
The Group is exposed to risks arising from failure to have the appropriate internal standards, strategic plans and governance, compliance,
monitoring and reporting mechanisms in place to ensure it can identify emerging issues, meet external expectations and comply with
applicable requirements. In addition, the Group relies on third-parties for sustainability performance monitoring, measurement and other
sustainability-related services. Such service providers may fail to perform these services to the specified or required standards or timeframes.
In addition, in order to meet its emission targets, the Group plans to rely in part on third-party technology, such as carbon capture, some of
which has not yet been developed to the required scale. If such developments are not available on commercially reasonable terms within the
Group's timeline for emission reduction, we may fail to meet those targets.
Impact
Failure to uphold high standards of sustainability management and performance or to provide transparent and consistent reporting, in
line with applicable requirements, could significantly impact the Group’s reputation or compliance position, and reduce investor
confidence. Poor performance across any aspect of sustainability, such as a failure to sufficiently address climate change-related risks,
expectations and requirements, or human rights impacts across the Group’s own operations and supply chain, could result in increased
costs and regulatory sanction, litigation, difficulty in attracting and retaining talent, or decrease in consumer demand for our products.
Poor performance could also result in a failure to achieve our sustainability targets.
Allegations of greenwashing and healthwashing, as a result of failure to responsibly and transparently market our products and
communicate our sustainability achievements and position, could result in reputational damage, litigation and regulatory sanction.
In addition, the Group’s association with any provider of sustainability-related services that fails to perform its services for the Group
or third-parties to the specified or required standard (or is alleged to have done so) could also result in reputational damage and
litigation impacts.
In addition, in order to meet its emission targets, the Group plans to rely in part on third-party technology, such as carbon capture,
some of which has not yet been developed to the required scale. If such developments are not available on commercially reasonable
terms within the Group's timeline for emission reduction, we may fail to meet those targets.
418
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Failure to successfully design, implement and sustain an integrated framework and operating model for Artificial
Intelligence (AI)
Description
Inability to effectively establish and maintain a cohesive and functional AI framework and operating model within the Group could result
in suboptimal utilisation of available AI technology, reduced efficiency and effectiveness, missed opportunities for innovation and value
creation, potentially harmful use of AI technology and violation of laws and regulations. Further, improper use of AI technology could
cause potential exposure regarding consumer privacy breaches. Additionally, the Group may be non-compliant regarding the
implementation of new technologies, including as a result of ambiguous legal requirements. The Group may also fail to ensure that the
design, implementation and ongoing management of the AI framework and operating model are well-planned, properly resourced and
effectively executed.
The Group defines “AI Systems” under Responsible & Ethical AI Framework as a computer system that generates content, predictions,
recommendations, decisions or other outputs, that functions with varying degrees of autonomy and that may exhibit adaptiveness after
deployment. The Group has implemented, and intends to further expand, the use of AI, including Generative AI.
Impact
Without a well-designed and properly functioning AI framework and operating model, the organisation may not be able to fully leverage
the potential of AI technology and improve operational efficiency and effectiveness, which could result in missed opportunities for
innovation and value creation, potentially putting the organisation at a competitive disadvantage. The lack of a cohesive and functional
AI framework and operating model could result in increased costs associated with suboptimal utilisation of AI technology, as well as the
potential need for additional resources to address issues and inefficiencies. Inability to adapt and adopt the technology in an effective
and compliant manner could result in reputational damage if the organisation is perceived as being unable to effectively leverage
emerging technologies and using data in a manner inconsistent with consumers' ethical expectations and company values. In addition,
use of discriminatory or unexplainable algorithms for decision making could potentially result in penalties for BAT and increased
attention from regulatory authorities, consumers and other stakeholders.
Risk: Inability to obtain adequate supplies of tobacco leaf
Description
The Group purchases significant volumes of packed leaf each year. Tobacco leaf, as any other agricultural commodity, can be impacted
by a variety of external factors. Like any other agricultural supply chain, it can be particularly vulnerable to a range of challenges,
including climate change, weather-related events, such as drought, flood and other natural disasters, increasing demand for land and
natural resources, rural poverty, social inequality, child labour and ageing farmer populations. Tobacco production in certain countries
is also subject to a variety of controls, including regulation affecting farming and production control programmes, and competition for
land use from other agriculture commodities. Such controls and competition can further constrain the production of tobacco leaf,
raising prices and reducing supply.
The Group recognises the above and any combination of those, including topics like child labour, as a risk to our tobacco leaf supply chain.
Impact
Restricted availability of tobacco leaf may prevent the Group from accessing sufficient tobacco leaf that meets its volume, quality and
sustainability requirements. This could lead to an impact in the quality of the Group's products to a level that may be perceptible by
consumers and may impact the Group's ability to deliver on consumer needs. The Group’s sustainability commitments may restrict the
sources we can buy from, which would result in an imbalance in supply and demand potentially causing incremental tobacco prices.
Higher tobacco leaf prices would result in increased raw material costs and have an adverse effect on the Group's financial condition.
The Group may also experience reputational damage from not adequately managing its sustainability priorities like climate change,
protection of natural resources, including forests, and human rights in our leaf supply chain, which may restrict suppliers willing to do
business with us.
Risk: Exposure to product contamination
Description
The Group may experience product contamination, whether by accident or deliberate malicious intent, during supply chain or manufacturing
processes, or may otherwise fail to comply with the Group’s quality standards. The Group may also receive threats of malicious tampering.
Impact
Product contamination or threats of contamination may expose the Group to significant costs associated with recalling products from
the market or temporarily ceasing production. In addition, adult tobacco consumers may lose confidence in the specific brand affected
by the contamination, resulting in reputational damage and a loss of sales volume and market share. The Group could be subject to
liability and costs associated with civil and criminal actions as well as regulatory sanctions brought in connection with a contamination
of the Group’s products. Each of these results may in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations, financial
condition and reputation and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
419
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Business Execution and Supply Chain Risks continued
Risk: Failure to successfully design, implement and sustain an integrated technical landscape and ERP strategy
Description
The Group aims to improve profitability and productivity through supply chain improvements and the continuous enhancements of an
integrated operating model and organisational structure, including standardisation of processes, centralised back-office services and a
common IT platform. The Group undertakes transformation initiatives periodically which aim to enhance the organisation and facilitate
growth, including the Group’s focus on New Categories and Beyond Nicotine. The Group’s efforts to achieve these goals are driven and
enabled through use of our TaO (central SAP ERP system) global template – an integrated set of standardised process used by the
Group within a central SAP instance common for the substantial majority of Group’s subsidiaries. These processes include, among
others, core back-office global processes, procurement, warehouse management, accounting and controlling.
Impact
Failure by the Group to successfully evolve the TaO global template to support a multi-category business model or not having a clear
future-fit ERP strategy, could lead to the Group’s inability to support BAT’s strategy and transformation, and realise anticipated
benefits. Additionally, this could lead to increased costs, disruption to operations, decreased trading performance, loss of institutional
knowledge and reduced market share. These results could in turn reduce profitability and funds available for investment by the Group in
long-term growth opportunities. Inability to develop governance process models in line with BAT’s evolving business strategy may
result in the failure to achieve sustainable multi-category growth including capturing additional productivity gains and achieving
sustainability goals which may in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the
Group to underperform on the delivery of its strategic growth plans.
Risk: Failure to manage the Group’s climate change-related risk
Description
The Group is exposed to direct and indirect adverse impacts associated with physical climate change-related risks, across its global
operations and supply chain. Climate change may cause acute physical risks (such as more frequent and severe weather events), or
chronic risks (such as those related to longer-term shifts in climate patterns and temperatures). These, alongside their direct impact on
Group operations, could lead to reductions in the supply and quality of tobacco leaf and other physical goods and cause transport and
logistics disruptions in our supply chains.
The Group may also experience adverse impacts associated with transition climate change risks, associated with the move to a low
carbon economy (such as emissions-related regulations and additional taxes applicable to its operations and its supply chain, changing
markets and emerging technologies).
As climate change policy, legislation and reporting requirements further evolve, companies need to effectively identify, assess, monitor
and mitigate associated risks. Failure to do so could lead to BAT scoring lower in sustainability ratings and indices used by financial
sector in making investment decisions.
As consumer and customer behaviours and expectations further evolve, the Group is exposed to the risk of failing to sufficiently adapt
its product portfolio and marketing strategy in response to stakeholders’ increasing sustainability expectations. Inadequate response to
climate change considerations may result in reduced demand for or rejection of the Group’s products, as well as reputational damage.
Impact
Disruption to the Group’s agricultural and/or non-agricultural supply chain or product distribution channels have had, and could have, an
adverse effect on its operations and financial condition through failures to meet product demand, contract disputes, increased costs
and loss of market share.
In recent periods, the Group experienced impacts from severe weather events. In 2023, a tornado in the U.S. caused the destruction of a
stock of tobacco leaves in a warehouse with a final loss of £8 million. The 2024 flood in the UAE caused an £11 million loss in machinery.
Consumer and customer expectations may influence their purchasing decisions and lead them to seek alternative product offerings. As
consumer behaviours evolve, the Group may fail to sufficiently adapt its product portfolio and market strategy in response to increasing
expectations on climate change considerations, potentially resulting in reduced demand for, or rejection of the Group’s products.
Besides increased costs associated with climate change regulation and additional reporting obligations, non-compliance with climate
change legislation (including reporting requirements) could reduce BAT’s ability to attract investors, result in reputational damage and
potentially regulatory sanctions. Poor results in ESG ratings and indices used by financial sector may impact their investment decisions,
and thereby increase the cost of capital or negatively impact share price.
Failure to meet current and future employees’ expectations concerning the Group’s actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change
may negatively impact the retention and attraction of high-quality employees.
420
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Failure to manage the Group’s circular economy risk
Description
The Group is exposed to risks associated with the move towards an increasingly circular business model, driven by internal and external
factors. These include product-related regulatory risks, such as product design/disassembly requirements, market access, loss of
market share, sourcing risk and Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) requirements.
As circular economy-related policy, legislation and reporting requirements further evolve, companies need to effectively identify,
assess, monitor and mitigate associated risks. Failure to do so could lead to BAT scoring lower in ESG ratings and indices used by
financial sector in making investment decisions.
As consumer and customer behaviours and expectations further evolve, the Group is exposed to the risk of failing to sufficiently adapt
its product portfolio and marketing strategy in response to stakeholders’ increasing sustainability expectations. Inadequate response to
product circularity considerations may result in reduced demand for or rejection of the Group’s products, as well as reputational damage.
Impact
Consumer and customer expectations may influence their purchasing decisions and lead them to seek alternative product offerings.
An inability to develop and commercialise products, packaging or value chain sustainability innovations in line with demand or less well
than competitors (including failures to adequately predict changes in consumer and societal behaviour and expectations and reflect
them in the product portfolio) could lead to missed commercial opportunities, under- or over-supply, loss of competitive advantage,
loss of market share, unrecoverable costs and the erosion of the Group’s consumer base or brand equity. Consumers failing to engage
in product recycling and/or Take-Back schemes could also have an impact on the Group’s EPR risks and obligations.
Non-compliance with product circularity legislation (including reporting requirements) could reduce BAT’s ability to attract investors,
result in reputational damage, potentially regulatory sanctions and loss of market access. Poor results in ESG ratings and indices used
by financial sector may impact their investment decisions, and thereby increase the cost of capital or negatively impact share price.
Failure to meet current and future employees’ expectations concerning the Group’s actions to address product circularity matters may
negatively impact the retention and/or attraction of high-quality employees.
Risk: Impact of a pandemic or other global health crises on the performance of the Group
Description
The Group continues to closely monitor the potential for disruption arising from pandemics, the most recent having been coronavirus
(COVID-19), or other global health crises. Consequences may include significant logistical challenges for employees and their ability to
perform their duties, potential loss of lives or significant level of illness in the workforce, inability to deliver revenue stream and market
share targets, impacting profits and cash flows, and disruption to the supply chain and third parties being unable to deliver contractual
goods and services. In addition, some countries in which the Group operates have in the past, and may adopt in the future, regulations
restricting the ability to manufacture, distribute, market and sell products.
Impact
The influence of COVID-19 was at that time, and the influence of future variants, other pandemics or other global health crises on the
Group's operations and financial condition is difficult to predict given the wide range of determining factors, not least the nature of the
pandemic/virus, its speed of infection, geographical scope and duration.
The impact of a pandemic or other global health crises on global economic activity and the nature and severity of measures adopted by
governments are numerous. The impact on the Group is not limited to:
– Reductions or volatility in consumer demand for one or more of our products due to illness, retail closures, quarantine or other travel
restrictions, health consciousness (quitting use of tobacco and nicotine products), government restrictions, the deterioration
of socio-economic conditions, economic hardship and customer-downtrading (switching to a cheaper brand), which may impact
the Group’s market share.
–Disruptions to the Group’s operations, such as its supply chain, or manufacturing or distribution capabilities, which may result in
increased costs due to the need for more complex supply chain arrangements, to expand existing facilities or to maintain inefficient
facilities, a reduction of the Group’s sales volumes or an increase in bad debts from customers.
–Disruption to the Group’s operations resulting from a significant number of the Group’s employees, including employees performing
key functions, working remotely for extended periods of time or becoming ill, which may reduce the employees’ efficiency and productivity
and cause product development delays, hamper new product innovation and have other adverse effects on the Group’s business.
– Significant volatility in financial markets (including exchange rate volatility) and measures adopted by governments and central banks
that further restrict liquidity, which may limit the Group’s access to funds, lead to shortages of cash and cash equivalents needed
to operate the Group’s business, and impact the Group’s ability to refinance its existing debt.
–Regulations restricting the ability to manufacture, distribute, market and sell products, and potentially increasing illicit trade.
–Governments seeking to increase revenues through increased corporate taxes and excise in combustible and/or New Category
products, increasing the cost and prices of our products – which could reduce volumes and margins, and/or increase illicit trade.
While some negative effects caused by COVID-19 took place in several End Markets over the last few years, including reduced demand
due to temporary smoking bans, lockdown restrictions, increased border checks and change in consumer behaviours, none of these
had a material effect on the Group’s overall profitability. However, all of the above factors may have material adverse effects on the
Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans. The difficulty in
predicting future pandemics exacerbates this risk.
421
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks
Risk: Exposure to, the enactment of, proposals for, or rumours of regulation that significantly impairs the Group’s ability to
communicate, differentiate, market or launch its products and/or the lack of appropriate regulation for New Categories
Description
The tobacco and nicotine industry is one of the most highly regulated in the world, with manufacturers required to comply with a
variety of different regulatory regimes across the globe. Most of these regulations, whether already in place or proposed, can be
categorised as follows:
–Category bans: Prohibitions on the sale, import, possession, or use of specific products, including New Categories;
–Product Regulations: On use of ingredients, product design and attributes (e.g. nicotine strength or flavours), as well as product
safety standards and product disclosure requirements;
–Packaging and labelling: Requirements for health warnings and other government-mandated messages to be printed on
packaging, as well as requirements around pack shape, size, weight and colour, plain packaging requirements or markings
required for single-use plastics;
–Advertising and sponsorship: Partial or total bans on advertising, promotions and sponsorships for products, as well as brand
stretching (the association between a tobacco and a non-tobacco product by using tobacco branding on the non-tobacco product);
–Retail: Restrictions on where tobacco and non-tobacco nicotine products can be sold, such as the types of outlets (e.g. supermarkets
and vending machines), restrictions on how they can be sold (e.g. above-the-counter versus beneath, or online), and restrictions on
adult purchase;
–Place: Bans on smoking or vaping in certain places;
–Price: Regulations which affect prices of tobacco and non-tobacco nicotine products, such as excise taxes and minimum pricing;
–Responsibility: Obligations under Extended Producer Responsibility schemes (e.g. cigarette waste clean-up) and measures to combat
illicit trade.
On top of legal requirements the Group also operates a number of global policies which may impose additional obligations or standards
beyond those required by local regulatory regimes. The Group recognises and supports the objectives of governments and
policymakers in reducing smoking rates and the associated health impacts, as well as the role of regulation in achieving these goals.
Accordingly, we endorse tobacco and nicotine regulations that are grounded in robust evidence, tailored to local circumstances,
effectively achieve intended policy objectives, and avoid unintended consequences, such as the expansion of illegal markets. However,
there is a risk that in some areas, the evolving regulatory environment may not follow these principles due to several key factors:
–Irresponsible behaviour or marketing practices by competitors, particularly in markets where appropriate regulation is lacking, or
actions that violate existing regulations, may cause reputational harm to the industry as a whole and result in disproportionate
regulation or bans.
–Pressure on governments from international organisations, agencies, tobacco control NGOs, influential national regulators, and the
private sector—including philanthropists, pharmaceutical companies, security technology firms, and social justice groups—may drive
the pursuit of regulatory policies intended to harm the tobacco and nicotine industry.
–Regulators may also have a limited understanding of New Category products and their potential role in tobacco harm
reduction. Concerns about underage access and the environmental impact of these products can further increase the risk
of inappropriate regulation.
From a compliance perspective, the Group may also fail to implement the appropriate level of control measures or maintain adequate
compliance standards with regulatory requirements. For example, the Group’s marketing activities may not fully comply with relevant
laws, regulations, or the Group’s Responsible Marketing Framework.
Inadequate information, instruction, and training in relevant areas, along with a lack of awareness or understanding of applicable
regulations—including those not just related to tobacco and nicotine but also to batteries or environmental regulations—may further
increase these risks. Additionally, failure to monitor, assess, and implement new or updated regulatory requirements could exacerbate
compliance challenges.
Finally, there may also be negative and disproportionate societal reactions to consumer misuse or abuse of tobacco and/or nicotine
products, particularly in New Categories, or toward certain product types.
Combustible Products
With respect to combustible tobacco products, many of the measures outlined in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control
(FCTC) have been or are in the process of being implemented through national legislation in many markets in which the Group operates,
including some of the non-legally binding recommendations (e.g. plain packaging and flavour bans).
In November, the eleventh Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (COP11) will take place in Geneva, and
part of the discussions will focus on analysing forward-looking tobacco control measures beyond the current scope of the FCTC.
In the U.S., the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced its intention to ban menthol as a characterising flavour in cigarettes. The
Biden Administration’s Fall 2023 Unified Agenda anticipated issuance in March 2024 of a final rule to ban menthol as a characterising
flavour in cigarettes; however, in April 2024 the Biden Administration indicated that a final rule would take significantly more time. The
new Trump Administration has withdrawn the rule from the Office of Management and Budget and it is currently held pending the new
administration’s reconsideration of regulations advanced by Biden. Further, the FDA may seek to require the reduction of nicotine levels
in tobacco products. On 15 January 2025, in the final days of the outgoing Biden Administration, the FDA issued a proposed product
standard whereby the agency would limit nicotine level in cigarettes following a two-year effective date from publication of any final rule.
The proposed rule is currently subject to public comment, but may be de-prioritised by the new Trump Administration as it considers all
proposed regulations advanced by the Biden Administration. Thus, it is not known whether or when this proposed rule will be finalised,
and if adopted, whether the final rule will be the same or similar as the proposed rule.
422
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Traditional vanguard countries on tobacco control efforts, such as the UK, Australia, Norway, and the Netherlands, continue to push the
boundaries of tobacco regulation by exploring extreme measures like generational sales bans (GSB)—which would prohibit anyone born
after a certain date from purchasing tobacco products. This concept was initially proposed in New Zealand but later dismissed. There is a
risk that such regulations could also extend to New Category products. In the UK, for instance, the Labour Government's legislative
agenda includes plans to introduce a bill that would implement a GSB for both cigarettes and tobacco heated products (THPs).
Separately, the Intergovernmental Negotiation Committee (INC) on Plastic Pollution, mandated by the UN Environment Assembly, has
been tasked with developing an international legally binding treaty to combat plastic pollution. The fifth session of the Intergovernmental
Negotiation Committee (INC5) concluded on 1 December 2024 without countries reaching a consensus on the text. Countries agreed to
adjourn negotiations to a later date, expected during 2025. While cigarette filters made of plastic remain referenced in a list of products
to be made subject to eventual elimination in a proposed annex, single-use plastic vapour products – proposed as an addition by some
countries are absent from the current text that will be discussed.
Finally, preparations for a revised EU Tobacco Products Directive (TPD) are progressing. If an updated version (TPDs) is initiated, it is
anticipated that the regulations under discussion will consider measures such as plain packaging for combustible products and/or
stricter regulation of ingredients in tobacco and nicotine products, including Modern Oral (MO), which today is not included in TPD2.
Smokeless Products (including New Categories)
Progressive regulations, including forward-thinking policies for Smokeless products, are essential to build a smokeless world and deliver
governments’ smoke free ambitions.
The Group believes that the development of regulations for Smokeless products should follow the below principles:
–Be based on science and evidence and proportionate to the product's risks compared with those of combustible tobacco;
–Facilitate adult awareness of smokeless alternatives and allowing adult-only access;
–Ensure product quality, environmental sustainability, and consumer relevance;
–Enable effective enforcement.
From a global perspective, regulation is still evolving and frameworks for regulation vary from country to country. While some regulators
have implemented progressive regulations aligned with the previously described principles, others are considering applying the same
regulatory frameworks used for traditional tobacco products. Some jurisdictions have banned or are contemplating banning flavours
(e.g., flavours banned since May 2020 in the EU, extended to HP in 2023) or imposing unsatisfying nicotine limits, or directly banning
certain product categories (e.g. MO in Belgium).
The primary drivers behind many regulatory proposals targeting New Categories continue to be preventing youth appeal and addressing
environmental issues. These concerns are made explicit in the reasoning justifying many legislative efforts to ban flavours in vapour
products and, more recently, to ban disposables. Such regulatory proposals are particularly prevalent across Europe.
Regarding the USA, and considering the risks associated with the FDA process, on 12 October 2021, the FDA issued its first Marketing
Granted Orders (MGOs) for tobacco-flavoured Vuse Solo and Vuse Solo power units. On the same date, Reynolds American companies
received Marketing Denial Orders (MDOs) for the flavoured (non-menthol and non-tobacco) Vuse Solo products. R. J. Reynolds Vapour
Company has since filed an appeal against these MDOs, which remains pending. While a series of MGOs for tobacco-flavoured products
have been granted, including recent MGOs for Vuse Alto “Golden” and “Rich” tobacco-flavoured vapour products, MDOs have also been
issued (and may be issued in the future) for non-tobacco flavoured products, reflecting the risks associated with products that contain
flavours outside of tobacco, which are currently subject to court challenges.
In the specific case of Modern Oral products, the Group's Velo and Grizzly synthetic pouch products remain available in the USA, subject
to FDA enforcement policies, and there can be no assurance that these products’ pending marketing authorisations will be granted or
FDA’s enforcement policies will remain unchanged. If the FDA denies a marketing authorisation or takes enforcement action, the relevant
product(s) would need to be withdrawn from the market unless a court or the FDA intervenes.
Beyond the different market approaches toward the regulation of Smokeless products, the lack of harmonisation between markets also
presents a risk in the New Categories space. The harmonisation of standards and a consensus behind certain regulatory measures will
be critical from a business perspective, ensuring a more predictable and efficient operating environment.
Beyond Nicotine
As the Group also looks to Beyond Nicotine products including CBD and cannabis (in connection with its investments in Organigram,
Sanity Group and Charlotte's Web), it may be subject to additional regulation and these products might not be scalable on a global basis
given varying degree of regulation.
Please refer to the discussion of tobacco and nicotine regulatory regimes under which the Group’s businesses operate set out from page 436.
423
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks continued
Risk: Exposure to, the enactment of, proposals for, or rumours of regulation that significantly impairs the Group’s ability to
communicate, differentiate, market or launch its products and/or the lack of appropriate regulation for New Categories continued
Impact
Extreme regulatory measures, impacting one or more New Categories (Smokeless) and/or combustible tobacco products and/or
Beyond Nicotine products, could adversely affect volume, revenue and profits, as a result of: restrictions on the Group’s ability to sell
and differentiate its products or brands, leverage price, innovate, make scientific claims, and make new market entries. In addition, new
regulations and lack of standards harmonisation among markets could lead to greater complexity, as well as higher production and
compliance costs.
As an example, through the acquisition of Reynolds American Inc., the Group acquired the Newport brand, the leading menthol
cigarette brand in the U.S., the Group’s largest single market. The sales of Newport, together with the other menthol brands of the
Group’s operating subsidiaries, represent a significant portion of the Group’s total net sales. Any action by the FDA or any other
governmental authority, including states and localities, banning or materially restricting the use of menthol in tobacco products (such
as the proposed FDA ban on menthol cigarettes) could have a significant negative impact on sales volumes which would, in turn, have
an adverse effect on the results of operations and financial position of the Group.
Disproportionate regulation of Smokeless products could significantly hinder our ability to deliver on our mission of Building a
Smokeless World as part of our transformative journey. Full category bans or regulations that jeopardise consumer acceptance would
have a significant impact on the Group's strategy for Smokeless products. These measures could both feed the illegal market (such as
in the case of the increase in illicit single-use vapour devices in the U.S. market) and undermine our ability to compete and develop our
products profitably while encouraging consumers to switch. As BAT always complies with regulations, such disproportionate regulation
that lacks robust enforcement measures reduces BAT’s ability to compete on equal terms with less responsible industry actors, who
disregard or deliberately don’t comply with local law and regulations.
California’s 2022 flavour ban on all tobacco and nicotine products disrupted the market along with discouraging adult combustible
consumers from switching to reduced-risk New Categories. Without heightened enforcement, illegal flavoured products will remain,
and the ban has not reduced FMC prevalence among youth and adults. Key findings from the 2022 Online CA Adult Tobacco Survey, CA
Tobacco Prevention Programme, updated for 2024, showed that the adult smoking prevalence in California pre-ban was 6.6%
compared to post-ban 7.1% in 2023. Although a visible increase in the prevalence and even though the data is not likely to be statistically
significant, it is clear that no decrease of the adult smoking prevalence has occurred following the introduction of the ban in 2022.
There is a risk that environmental and sustainability regulations, such as Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) schemes for cigarette
manufacturers, will continue to impact New Category products, especially if the EU EPR schemes for New Category products are
picked up by more countries outside of EU,
Disproportionate regulation of our combustible products not only impacts our ability to execute the Group strategy for these products,
but also influences investor sentiment in the sector and the residual value of the Company. Emerging issues such as filter bans,
mandatory limits on nicotine products, and generational sales bans can significantly affect both our current business operations and
future expectations.
As a reflection of the real or perceived impact of stricter regulation of our business, the Group's share price has also experienced, and
could in the future experience, shocks upon the announcement, expectation or enactment of restrictive regulation. All these effects
may have an adverse effect on the Group's results of operations and financial conditions and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its
strategic growth plans.
Finally, and considering the significant number of regulations that may apply to the Group’s businesses across the world, the Group is
and may in the future be subject to claims for breach of such regulations. Government authorities (such as the FDA), organisations or
even individuals may allege that our marketing activities do not comply with the relevant laws and regulations, or with our Responsible
Marketing Framework. As such, the Group could be subject to liability and costs associated with civil and criminal actions as well as
regulatory sanctions, fines and penalties brought in connection with these allegations.
Even when proven untrue, there are often financial costs and reputational impacts in defending against such claims and allegations,
including potential adverse impact on the treatment by the FDA of the Group ‘s PMTAs in the U.S. Each of these results may in turn
have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic
growth plans.
424
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Adverse implications of EU legislation on single-use plastics that will result in on-pack environmental warnings and
financial implications relating to the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR)
Description
The EU adopted a Directive on single-use plastics in July 2019 (the "SUP Directive") which, among other products, targets tobacco
products with filters containing plastic. The Cellulose Acetate in our filters is defined as a single-use plastic under the Directive and, as
such, the Directive will have an impact on the Group’s cigarettes, filters for other tobacco products and consumables for THPs and
Heated Herbal Products (HHPs) (the latter, although not a tobacco product, has the same filter as THP, thus the Group’s decision is to
include it in the EPR scope).
Under the SUP Directive, the Group will be subject to (and in some cases already is subject to) EPR schemes, requiring the Group to
cover the costs of collecting, transporting, treating and cleaning-up of filters containing plastic, data gathering and reporting. The SUP
Directive also imposes on tobacco manufacturers the obligation to finance consumer awareness campaigns and to place
environmental markings on packs of products with filters containing plastic.
Member States had to transpose the SUP Directive into national law by 3 July 2021, with an implementation deadline of 5 January 2023
for EPR schemes. In practice, some Member States are still late on transposition and implementation, with the practical consequence
that EPR schemes will go live with several months delays in some member states. The European Commission is also late in its issuance
of guidelines on the criteria for the costs of cleaning up litter, which should have been issued prior to the anticipated implementation
deadline for EPR schemes. This introduces further difficulties and uncertainty in the design and setting-up of EPR schemes. When
transposing the SUP Directive into national law, EU member states could decide to expand the scope of EPR systems under their
respective national laws, which may expose the Group to additional regulations and financial obligations. This is the case in France,
where EPR implementation has already occurred with an expansion of the scope to include non-plastic filters for RYO products.
Proposed regulations are still being discussed in some countries, i.e. in Belgium, the Netherlands, and Romania.
It is noted that there is a growing level of scrutiny on the use of single-use plastic across the world and a number of other markets in
which the Group operates are considering ways to restrict (or ban) the use of filters made of plastic and/or introduce EPR schemes
covering other plastic elements in our products beyond filters for traditional products and/or New Categories products.
Impact
The financial implications of existing and future EPR schemes will increase administrative burdens and operating costs and may have
an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic
growth plans. Failure to deliver appropriate EPR schemes may lead to imposition of the schemes by the local authorities at a higher
cost to the Group, adversely impacting the Group’s results of operations, financial condition and reputation.
Risk: Exposure to litigation, regulatory action or criminal investigations on tobacco, nicotine, New Categories
and other issues
Description
The Group is involved in litigation related to its tobacco and nicotine products, including legal, regulatory and patent actions,
proceedings and claims, brought against it in a number of jurisdictions. Claims brought against the Group may be based on personal
injury (both individual claims and class actions), economic loss arising from the treatment of smoking and health-related diseases (such
as medical recoupment claims brought by local governments), patent infringement (please refer to the risk factor under “Product
pipeline, commercialisation and Intellectual Property risks, Exposure to risks associated with intellectual property rights, including the
failure to identify, protect and prevent infringement of the Group’s intellectual property rights and potential infringement of, or the
failure to retain licences to use, third-party intellectual property rights” below), negligence, strict tort liability, design defect, failure to
warn, fraud, misrepresentation, deceptive/unfair trade practices, conspiracy, medical monitoring, securities law violations and violations
of antitrust/racketeering laws. Sustainability-related litigation and regulatory action may also be brought against the Group.
Certain actions, such as those in the U.S. and Canada, involve claims in the tens or hundreds of billions in sterling. The Group is also
involved in proceedings that are not directly related to its tobacco and nicotine products, including proceedings based on
environmental pollution claims.
Additional legal and regulatory actions and investigations, proceedings and claims may be brought against the Group in the future. The
Group investigates, and becomes aware of governmental authorities’ investigations into, allegations of misconduct, including alleged
breaches of sanctions and allegations of corruption at Group companies. Some of these allegations are currently being investigated.
The Group cooperates with the authorities, where appropriate.
Impact
The Group’s consolidated results of operations and financial position could be materially affected by any unfavourable outcome of
certain pending or future litigation. The Group could be exposed to substantial liability, which may take the form of ongoing payments,
such as is the case with the State Settlement Agreements in the U.S. that require substantial ongoing payments by Group subsidiary,
RJRT. Whether successful or not, the costs of the Group’s involvement in litigation could materially increase due to costs associated
with bringing proceedings and defending claims, which may also cause operational and strategic disruption by diverting management
time away from business matters. Liabilities and costs in connection with litigation could result in bankruptcy of one or more Group
entities, for example, following a judgement in Canada, certain of the Group's Canadian subsidiaries filed for protection under the CCAA.
Any negative publicity resulting from these claims may also adversely affect the Group’s reputation.
The occurrence of any of the above effects could in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial
condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans. In connection with the case in Canada described above,
the court-appointed mediator and monitor filed a proposed plan of compromise and arrangement in the Ontario Superior Court of
Justice in 2024, which will require substantial ongoing payments by our Canada subsidiary, if sanctioned. Please refer to note 24 on
page 327 and note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities respectively provisions applicable to
the Group.
425
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks continued
Risk: Significant and/or unexpected increases or structural changes in tobacco and nicotine-related taxes
Description
Tobacco and nicotine products are subject to high levels of taxation, including excise taxes, sales taxes, import duties and levies in most
markets in which the Group operates. In many of these markets, taxes are generally increasing, but the rate of increase varies between
markets and between different types of tobacco and nicotine products. Increases in, or the introduction of new, tobacco and nicotine-
related taxes may be caused by a number of factors, including fiscal pressures, health policy objectives and increased lobbying pressure
from anti-tobacco advocates.
With respect to New Categories, although a common framework for regulation and taxation has yet to emerge, the manufacture, sale,
packaging and advertising of such products are increasingly being regulated and taxed.
The EU Tobacco Excise Directive is in the process of being revised. However, there is no set timetable. We expect to see a proposal
from the EU Commission in 2025. It will not, however, be agreed by member states and enshrined in law until 2028 or later.
Impact
Significant or unexpected increases in, or the introduction of new, tobacco-related taxes or minimum retail selling prices, changes in
relative tax rates for different tobacco and nicotine products or adjustments to excise have in the past resulted, and may in the future
result, in the need for the Group to absorb such tax increases due to limits in its ability to increase prices, an alteration in the sales mix
in favour of value-for-money brands or products, or growth in illicit trade, each of which could impact pricing, sales volume and profit
for the Group’s products. Significant or unexpected increases of tobacco-related taxes could also impact the Group's ability to deliver
the corporate purpose of harm reduction.
Risk: Failure to comply with health and safety and environmental laws
Description
The Group is subject to a variety of laws, regulations and operational standards relating to health and safety and the environment.
The Group may fail to assess certain risks and implement the right level of control measures or to maintain adequate standards of
health and safety or environmental compliance, which could cause injury, ill health, disability or loss of life to employees, contractors
or members of the public, or harm to the natural environment and local communities in which the Group operates. As a result of the
outcomes of the COP26, further future regulation is anticipated as governments look to meet their climate change ambitions.
Insufficient information, instruction and training in the relevant areas and a lack of knowledge of the existence and/or requirements
of relevant regulations, or a failure to monitor, assess and implement the requirements of new or modified legislation, may increase
these risks.
Impact
Any failure by the Group to comply with applicable health and safety or environmental laws, or the exposure to the consequences of
a perceived failure, could result in business disruption, reputational damage, difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff, increased
insurance costs, consequential losses, the obligation to install or upgrade costly pollution control equipment, loss of value of the Group’s
assets, remedial costs and damages, fines and penalties as well as civil or criminal liability. Each of these results could in turn adversely
impact the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
Risk: Exposure to unfavourable tax rulings
Description
The Group is subject to tax laws in a variety of jurisdictions. The Group‘s interpretation and application of the tax laws could differ from
those of the relevant tax authority, which may subject the Group to claims for breach of such laws, including for late or incorrect filings
or for misinterpretation of rules. Tax authorities in a variety of jurisdictions, such as the Netherlands and Brazil, have assessed, and may
in the future assess, the Group for historical tax claims, including interest and penalties, arising from disputed areas of tax law.
The Group is currently party to tax disputes in a number of jurisdictions, some of which involve claims for amounts in the hundreds
of millions in sterling.
Please refer to note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
Impact
The Group’s failure to comply with the relevant tax authority’s interpretation and application of the tax laws could result in significant
financial and legal penalties, including the payment of additional taxes, fines and interest in the event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax
authority in a disputed area, as well as the payment of dispute costs, or in connection with settlements of such disputes. Disruption
to the business could occur as a result of management’s time being diverted away from business matters. Each of these results
could negatively affect the Group’s results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic
growth plans.
426
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Exposure to potential liability under competition or antitrust laws
Description
According to the Group’s internal estimates, the Group is a leader by volume and/or value in certain categories in a number of countries
in which it operates and/or is one of a small number of tobacco and/or New Categories companies in certain other categories in which
it operates. The Group has had antitrust infringement decisions imposed against it in the past and is subject to ongoing investigations
(please refer to note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group). The Group
may be subject to investigation, inquiry and/or litigation for alleged abuse of its position in categories in which it has significant
presence, alleged collusion/anti-competitive arrangements with other market participants, and/or for other alleged competition law
infringements and/or market features. Competition/antitrust laws continue to evolve globally with increasingly aggressive enforcement.
Impact
Investigations (and/or litigation) for alleged violation of competition or antitrust laws, and any adverse decision as a result of such
investigations and/or litigation, may result in significant legal liability, fines, penalties, repayment orders and/or damages actions;
criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees; increased costs, prohibitions on conduct of the Group’s business;
forced changes in business practices, forced divestment of brands and businesses (or parts of businesses) to competitors or other
buyers; director disqualifications; commercial agreements being held void; and operational and strategic disruption (including by
diverting management time away from business matters). The Group may face increased public scrutiny and the investigation or
imposition of sanctions by antitrust regulation agencies and/or courts for violations of competition regimes which may subject the
Group to reputational damage and loss of goodwill, including negative perceptions of the Group’s governance and our ESG credentials.
The occurrence of any of the above effects could in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial
condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
Risk: Failure to establish and maintain adequate controls and procedures to comply with applicable securities, corporate
governance and compliance regulations
Description
The Group’s operations are subject to a range of rules and regulations around the world. These include U.S. securities, corporate
governance and compliance laws and regulations, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
of 1977, and expanding sustainability reporting and disclosure requirements which apply to the Group’s worldwide activities. While the
Group continuously seeks to improve its systems of internal controls and to remedy any weaknesses identified, there can be no
assurance that the policies and procedures will be followed at all times or effectively detect and prevent violations of applicable laws. In
addition, the Group is subject to increasingly stringent reporting obligations under UK corporate reporting regulations.
Impact
The increased scope and complexity of applicable regulations to which the Group is subject may lead to higher costs for compliance.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations may result in significant legal liability, fines, penalties, class action suits and/or damages
actions, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, and damage to the Group’s reputation. Non-compliance with
such regulations could also lead to a loss of the Group’s listing on one or more stock exchanges or a loss of investor confidence with a
subsequent reduction in share price.
Risk: Lack of external recognition and acceptance of the foundational science and inability to effectively communicate to
stakeholders about the potential health impact of our New Category products
Description
Scientific evidence to support the harm reduction potential of New Category products is essential for demonstrating and
communicating the risk reduction potential of these products to adult smokers. BAT conducts rigorous science to demonstrate the
potential reduced-risk outcomes when smokers switch to New Category products, and in the longer-term, epidemiological data will be
required to demonstrate the health impact at population levels. Consumer expectations and the rapid pace of innovation necessitate
the evolution of the product portfolio, which requires the Group to regularly re-assess and update the associated scientific evidence base.
Long-term epidemiological data requires decades to acquire. Therefore, the scientific data available today is by necessity shorter-term
data that provides a strong indication of the reduced-risk potential of New Category products relative to cigarettes. In terms of the
wider Tobacco Harm Reduction strategy, there is a risk that the long-term health impact of New Category products is not fully
understood at this time. There is also a risk of failure to communicate the scientific findings in a timely or effective manner.
Furthermore, there are challenges on the choice of standards, controls and/or experimental design and methodology used for
demonstrating the robustness of scientific research, together with regulation limiting risk communication to consumers.
Impact
Inability to fully demonstrate and communicate the Tobacco Harm Reduction abilities of New Category products in a timely manner
may lead to greater regulatory restrictions or outright bans, market share reduction, fines and penalties, reputational damage, and
inability to sustain our quality growth and sustainability strategy. These potential impacts could cause the Group to fail to deliver on its
strategic growth plans and objectives.
427
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks continued
Risk: Insufficient product stewardship and failure to comply with product regulations
Description
The Group is subject to risks of safety incidents in pre-market testing or in market due to, for example, a lack of due caution and
appropriate response paid to pre-market product data, or toxicology information, inaccurate and unreliable information from suppliers
and/or compromise of data or other information through cybersecurity attacks.
The interpretation and application of regulations concerning the Group’s products, such as the Tobacco and Related Products Directive
(TPD2), may be subject to debate and uncertainty. This includes uncertainty over product classifications and restrictions on advertising.
In particular, with respect to the developing category of New Categories, which has grown in size and complexity in a relatively short
period of time, a consensus framework for the interpretation and application of existing regulation has yet to emerge.
The continuously changing and evolving landscape of regulation concerning the Group’s products contributes to the uncertainty
surrounding interpretation and application and creates a risk that the Group may misinterpret or fail to comply with developing
regulations in the various jurisdictions in which it operates, or becomes subject to enforcement actions from regulators. With the
continuous changing of product cycle plans and expansion to new markets and innovations, there is a risk that such changes and
launches fail to comply with the relevant regulations, including pre-approval and/or pre-registration requirements. For example, some
governments have intentionally banned or are seeking to ban novel tobacco products and products containing nicotine, while others
would need to amend their existing legislation to permit their sale. Even in countries where the sale of such products is currently
permitted, some governments have adopted, or are seeking to adopt, bans on New Categories or restrictions on certain flavours.
Impact
The significant number of emerging regulations and the uncertainty surrounding their interpretation and application may subject the
Group to claims for breach of such regulations. Financial costs of such enforcement actions include financial penalties, product recalls
and litigation costs, and entail a significant risk of adverse publicity and damage to the Group’s reputation and goodwill. In cases of
consumer injury or fatality due to a consumer product safety issue, this could also cause significant Group reputational damage, leading
to a negative impact on stakeholder confidence, including consumers, retailers, investors, and regulatory and public health organisations.
Risk: Failure to uphold high standards of corporate behaviour, including through unintended or malicious breach of anti-
bribery and anti-corruption and other anti-financial crime laws
Description
The Group is subject to various anti-corruption laws and regulations and other anti-financial crime laws including but not limited to
those relating to tax evasion, money laundering, terrorist financing and bribery (Anti-Corruption Laws, including the UK Proceeds of
Crime Acts (POCA)). All employees of BAT, its subsidiaries and joint ventures which it controls are expected to uphold a high standard
of corporate behaviour and comply with the Group Standards of Business Conduct (SoBC) which includes a requirement to comply
with Anti-Corruption Laws. Employees, associates, suppliers, distributors and agents are prohibited from engaging in improper
conduct to obtain or retain business or to improperly influence (directly or indirectly) a person working in an official capacity to decide
in the Group’s favour. The Group’s employees, contractors and service providers may fail to comply with our SoBC and/or may violate
applicable Anti-Corruption Laws.
The Group investigates, and becomes aware of governmental authorities’ investigations into, allegations of misconduct, including
allegations of corruption at Group companies. Some of these allegations are currently being investigated. The Group cooperates with
the authorities where appropriate. Please refer to note 24 on page 327 in the Notes on the Accounts.
Please refer to note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
Impact
Failure of the Group to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations and other anti-financial crime laws, or to deploy and maintain
robust internal policies, procedures and controls may and have resulted in significant fines and penalties (reducing the Group’s ability to
reinvest in the future), a share price impact, criminal and/or civil sanctions against the Group and its officers and employees, increased
costs, prohibitions or other limitations or requirements (e.g. compliance requirements) on the conduct of the Group’s business and
reputational harm (including negative perceptions of the Group’s governance and our ESG credentials), and may subject the Group to
claims for breach of such regulations.
The occurrence of any of the above effects could in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition
and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans. Even when proven untrue, there are often financial costs, time
demands and reputational impacts associated with investigating and defending against such claims.
Risk: Unexpected legislative changes to corporate income tax laws
Description
The Group is subject to corporate income tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws frequently change on a
prospective or retroactive basis.
Impact
Legislative changes to corporate income tax laws and regulations may have an adverse impact on the Group’s corporate income tax
liabilities and may lead to a material increase of the Group’s overall tax rate - these include changes in international tax laws following
the OECD project on base erosion and profit shifting. This could, in turn, negatively affect the Group’s results of operations and financial
such as any changes condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
428
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Imposition of sanctions under sanctions regimes or similar international, regional or national measures
Description
National, international and supra-national sanctions regimes or similar international, regional or national measures are complex and
dynamic and may affect territories in which the Group operates or third parties with which it may have commercial relationships. There
may be unintended or malicious breaches of sanctions due to inappropriate or negligent behaviour by BAT employees, contractors,
customers, suppliers or service providers.
Operations in countries and territories subject to sanctions expose the Group to the risk of significant financial costs and disruption
in operations that may be difficult or impossible to predict or avoid or the activities could become commercially and/or operationally
unviable. In particular, the Group has operations in Cuba, which is subject to various sanctions in the United States. Sanctions can be
imposed quickly with the possibility of further territories the Group operates in becoming subject to sanctions at short notice.
The Group investigates, and becomes aware of governmental authorities’ investigations into, allegations of misconduct, including
alleged breaches of sanctions at Group companies. Some of these allegations are currently being investigated. The Group cooperates
with the authorities, where appropriate.
In 2023, the Group reached settlement agreements with the DOJ and OFAC in the United States related to breaches of sanctions
related to North Korea, which resulted in the imposition of fines against the Group totalling US$635 million plus interest.
National, international and supra-national sanctions regimes may also affect third parties with which the Group has commercial
relationships, e.g. through their banks (including possible risk aversion to being associated with a sanctioned territory), and could lead
to supply and payment chain disruptions.
Please refer to note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
Impact
As a result of the limitations imposed by sanctions, it may become commercially and/or operationally unviable for the Group and/or
its critical business partners to operate in certain territories or execute transactions related to them and the Group may be required
to exit existing operations in such territories. The Group may also experience difficulty in sourcing materials or importing products,
repatriating currency from a sanctioned country and finding financial institutions willing to transact with it, any of which may expose
the Group to increased costs. In addition, the costs of complying with sanctions may increase as a result of new, or changes to existing,
sanctions regimes.
In addition to the settlement agreements reached by the Group with the DOJ and OFAC in the United States, as detailed above,
any other failure of the Group to comply with sanctions regimes or similar international, regional, national or supra-national measures,
or to deploy and maintain robust internal policies, procedures and controls, could result in additional fines and penalties (reducing
the Group’s ability to reinvest in the future), a share price impact, criminal and/or civil sanctions against the Group and its officers
and employees, increased costs, prohibitions or other limitations or requirements (e.g. compliance requirements) on the conduct
of the Group’s business, reputational harm (including negative perceptions of the Group’s governance or our ESG credentials),
and damage to commercial or banking relationships, and may subject the Group to claims for breach of such regimes or measures.
Reputational harm (including negative perceptions of the Group’s governance and our ESG credentials) may result from the Group's
operations in a sanctioned country regardless of whether the Group complies with imposed sanctions.
The occurrence of any of the above effects could in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial
condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans. Even when proven untrue, there are often financial costs,
time demands and reputational impacts associated with investigating and defending against such claims.
Risk: Failure to uphold New Categories marketing practices
Description
The regulatory landscape is constantly evolving with marketing practices being regulated differently in key New Categories markets.
The Group’s marketing activities may be found to be, or alleged (including in the media) to be, non-compliant with laws and regulations,
or with the Responsible Marketing Framework (RMF) on the marketing and sale of tobacco and nicotine products to consumers e.g. in
relation to age verification measures. On-line activities can also be found to be, or alleged to be, aimed at consumers in a country where
such activities are not permitted.
Impact
The Group is and may in the future be subject to claims for breach of marketing practices. In particular, national authorities (such as the
FDA), organisations or even individuals may allege that our marketing activities do not comply with the relevant laws and regulations, or
with our RMF. As such, the Group could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, fines and penalties brought in connection with
these allegations. Even when proven untrue, there are often financial costs and reputational impacts in defending against such claims
and allegations which may ultimately also lead to stricter regulations impacting our business.
Future breaches may lead to a loss of investor confidence in sustainability performance and inability to meet our responsible marketing
focus area if our RMF are not followed, impacting our corporate purpose of delivering harm reduction.
429
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks continued
Risk: Loss or misuse of personal data through a failure to comply with the European General Data Protection Regulation,
the UK Data Protection Act 2018, e-Privacy Laws and other privacy legislation governing the processing of personal data.
Description
Personal data is a subset of data which attracts different risks and treatment under applicable law. Breaches of data privacy laws
include misuse of information which may not be confidential in nature. These include, for example, unsolicited marketing calls to a
publicly available number, or using an individual’s personal data in a way which was not authorised or in a way that the individual did not
reasonably expect through technologies such as online tracking or monitoring.
Various privacy laws, including the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), UK Data Protection Act 2018 (UKDPA)
and e-Privacy Laws, govern the way in which organisations handle personal data of individuals (such as consumers, employees,
contractors, service providers and other authorised persons) including tracking or monitoring their online behaviour.
Unintended or malicious breaches of data privacy laws may occur through system vulnerabilities, cyber-attacks, and by inappropriate
or negligent behaviour by BAT employees, contractors, service providers or others.
Depending on the risk of harm to the individuals concerned, such breaches of data privacy laws (including mass personal data
unavailability) could trigger a formal notification to a local data protection supervisory authority. This, in turn, could subject Group
companies to not only regulatory scrutiny but also individual claims or even class action suits; and ePrivacy Laws state that any misuse
of consumer personal data or lack of transparency provided to consumers on how we use their data or track their online behaviours are
subject to regulatory scrutiny.
Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. Following the entry
into force of the GDPR in May 2018, other jurisdictions in which the Group operates have enacted similar local legislation such as the
California Consumer Privacy Act U.S. and the “LGPD” in Brazil which further increases the risks surrounding the processing of personal
data especially in the consumer space. As part of the Group's digital transformation, and move towards a more consumer centric
approach, in particular related to New Categories, this could further increase these risks as the expectation is that the exposure to
consumer data volumes will increase as well. With the emergence of new technologies, including Artificial Intelligence, these risks
(particularly, personal data misuse in the context of automated decision making by leveraging AI) may be exacerbated.
Impact
Failure to comply with existing or future e-Privacy Laws and privacy legislation governing the processing of personal data may
adversely impact the Group’s results of operations and financial condition.
Loss or unlawful use of personal data may result in civil or criminal legal liability and prosecution by enforcement bodies, which may
subject the Group to the imposition of material fines and/or penalties and/or claims and costs associated with defending these claims
(which could include class action suits brought by consumers). The fine under the GDPR and UK data privacy laws for the most severe
infringements can be up to €20 million, or 4% of the Group’s worldwide annual revenue from the preceding financial year, whichever is
higher. In the event of a plurality of actions, with separate sanctionable conducts not caught by the principle of concurrence of conduct,
fines can be applied alongside each other, without being a single legal maximum applicable to the sum. The Group’s officers and
employees may also be subject to personal criminal sanctions in certain jurisdictions. Non-compliance with the EU AI Act can result in
fines up to EUR 35 million or 7% of a company's annual turnover. The Brazilian LGDP provides for fines up to 2% of a company's revenue
in Brazil, capped at BRL 50 million per violation. Under the California CCPA, the fines for non-compliance include up to USD 7,500 per
violation for intentional breaches.
Reputational damage could also potentially cause significant harm to the Group, including negative perceptions of the Group’s
governance and our ESG credentials.
Relevant data protection supervisory authority could also order certain Group legal entities to cease processing activities, which could
result in a significant operational disruption. Regulatory interest may also prompt interest from other compliance authorities/
governments, leading to further regulation or proceedings.
The occurrence of any of the above effects could in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial
condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
430
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Economic and Financial Risks
Risk: Foreign exchange rate exposures
Description
The Group’s reporting currency is sterling. The Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates affecting the translation of
net assets and earned profits of overseas subsidiaries into the Group’s reporting currency. These translational exposures are not
normally hedged.
Exposures also arise from the foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries and dividend flows.
Where not offset by opposing flows, these exposures are generally hedged according to internal policies, but hedging of exposure
to certain currencies might not be possible due to exchange controls, limited currency availability or prohibitive costs, and errors
in hedging may occur. Monetary policy divergence in relation to interest rates between top markets may also increase these risks.
Impact
During periods of exchange rate volatility, the impact of exchange rates on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition can
be significant. Fluctuations in exchange rates of key currencies against sterling may result in volatility in the Group’s reported earnings
per share, cash flow and balance sheet. Furthermore, the dividend paid by the Group may be impacted if the payout ratio is not
adjusted. Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may also affect key ratios used by credit rating agencies, which may
have an adverse effect on the Group’s credit ratings.
In addition, volatility and/or increased costs in the Group’s business due to transactional foreign exchange rate exposures may
adversely affect operating margins and profitability and attempts to increase prices to offset such increases could adversely impact
sales volumes.
The increased volatility observed in recent years in commodity prices has contributed to additional volatility of exchange rates,
impacting the financial performance of the Group's subsidiaries. The global dynamic backdrop of monetary policy actions, the inflation
cycle, as well as the economic performance may also increase the exchange rate risk in the short term.
Risk: Inability to obtain price increases and exposure to risks from excessive price increases and value chain erosion
Description
Annual price increases by the Group are among the key drivers in increasing market profitability. However, the Group has in the past
been, and may in the future be, unable to obtain such price increases as a result of increased regulation; increased competition from
illicit trade; stretched consumer affordability arising from deteriorating political and economic conditions and rising prices; sharp
increases or changes in excise structures; and competitors’ pricing.
As the New Categories market continues to develop, the Group may face erosion in the value chain for New Categories through lower
market prices, excise taxes, high retail trade margins or high production costs that make New Categories less competitive versus
combustible tobacco products.
In addition, the Group faces the risk that price increases it has conducted in the past, and may conduct in the future, may be excessive
and not find adequate adult tobacco consumer acceptance.
Impact
If the Group is unable to obtain price increases or is adversely affected by impacts of excessive price increases, it may be unable to
achieve its strategic growth metrics, have fewer funds to invest in growth opportunities, and, in the case of excessive price increases,
be faced with quicker reductions in sales volumes than anticipated due to accelerated market decline, down-trading (switching to a
cheaper brand) and increased illicit trade. These in turn impact the Group’s market share, results of operations and financial condition
and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
In addition, erosion in the value chain for New Categories could have a negative impact on the Group’s sales volume or pricing for these
products. High excise could dampen demand for New Categories or result in lower profit margins. Lower market prices, high retail
trade margins or increases in production costs could also negatively impact profit margins or lead to uncompetitive pricing.
431
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Economic and Financial Risks continued
Risk: Effects of declining consumption of legitimate tobacco products and a tough competitive environment
Description
Evidence of market contraction and the growth of illicit trade of tobacco products is apparent in several key global markets in which the
Group operates. This decline is due to multiple factors, including increases in excise taxes leading to continuous above-inflation price
rises, changes in the regulatory environment, the continuing difficult economic environment in many countries impacting consumers’
disposable incomes, the increase in the trade of illicit tobacco products, rising health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of
smoking and an increase in New Category uptake.
The Group competes based on the strength of its strategic brand portfolio, product quality and taste, brand recognition loyalty,
innovation, trade marketing distribution activities and price. The Group is subject to highly competitive environments in all aspects of its
business, and its competitive position can be significantly influenced by the prevailing economic climate, consumers’ disposable
income, regulation, competitors’ introduction of lower-price or innovative products, higher tobacco and nicotine product taxes, higher
absolute prices, governmental action to increase minimum wages, employment costs, interest rates and increase in raw material costs.
Furthermore, the Group is subject to substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements, which adversely
affect the ability of the Group to compete in the U.S. with manufacturers of deep-discount cigarettes that are not subject to such
substantial obligations.
Impact
Any future decline in the demand for legitimate tobacco products could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and
financial conditions and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
In a tough competitive environment, factors such as market size reduction, customer down-trading, illicit trade and competitors
aggressively taking market share through price re-positioning or price wars generally reduce the overall profit pool of the market and
may impact delivery of the Group’s profits. This may also lead to a decline in sales volume, loss of market share, impact delivery of the
Group’s sustainability agenda, erosion of its portfolio mix and reduction of funds available for investment in growth opportunities.
Risk: Funding, liquidity and interest rate risks
Description
The Group cannot be certain that it will have access to bank financing or to the debt and equity capital markets at all times and is
therefore subject to funding and liquidity risks. In addition, the Group’s access to funding may be affected by restrictive covenants to
which it is subject under some of its credit facilities. Furthermore, failure to appropriately engage with investors’ and lenders’
sustainability criteria and concerns may impact BAT’s credit ratings, access to funding, or may result in an increase in the cost of funding.
The Group is also exposed to increases in interest rates in connection with both existing floating rate debt and future debt refinancings.
Although, interest rates have started to be cut by main Central Banks, having reached their peak after few years of intense hikes, in the
attempt to tame inflation, further changes are strictly data dependent, inflation and labour market trends playing an important role in
central banks’ future actions.
Furthermore, the Group operates in several markets closely regulated by governmental bodies that intervene in foreign exchange
markets by imposing limitations on the ability to convert local currency into foreign currency and introducing other currency and capital
controls that expose cash balances to devaluation risks, increase costs to obtain hard currency, or are a barrier to the repatriation of
earnings. As a result, the Group’s operational entities in these markets may be restricted from using End Market cash resources to pay
for imported goods, dividend remittances, interest payments and royalties. The inability to access End Market cash resources in certain
markets contributes to the Group’s funding and liquidity risks.
Compliance with sanctions and the restrictive policies of banks to facilitate transactions that are sanctions sensitive, can also restrict
the ability to transfer and use cash that is sanctions sensitive. Anti-money laundering legislation can lead to additional restrictions
relating to the payment and receipt of funds for both BAT as well as its business partners.
In addition, the Group's further development into the cannabis sector may lead to inaccessible proceeds from this activity, and such
activity may expose the Group to further regulatory and legal risks due to different local and international laws. The Group may also face
reputation and compliance issues due to various levels of acceptance of the cannabis sector by stakeholders which may restrict bank
and/or investor access.
Impact
Adverse developments in the Group’s funding, liquidity and interest rate environment may lead to shortages of cash and cash
equivalents needed to operate the Group’s business and to refinance its existing debt. Inability to fund the business under the Group’s
current capital structure, failure to access funding and foreign exchange or increases in interest rates may also have an adverse effect
on the Group’s credit rating, which would in turn result in further increased funding costs and may require the Group to issue equity or
seek new sources of capital. Although the Group currently benefits from investment grade ratings from Moody's, S&P and Fitch, any
adverse impact in the activity may trigger a rating revision. Any downgrade of the Group's credit ratings or loss of investment grade
status could materially increase the Group's financing costs. Non-compliance with the Group’s covenants under certain credit facilities
could lead to an acceleration of its debt.
All these factors may have material adverse effects on the Group’s results of operations and financial conditions and cause the Group
to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans. These conditions could also lead to underperforming bond prices and increased yields.
In the case of funding or liquidity constraints, the Group may also suffer reputational damage due to its perceived failure to manage the
financial risk profile of its business, which may result in an erosion of shareholder value reflected in an underperforming share price, and/
or underperforming bond prices and higher yields. In addition, the Group’s ability to finance strategic opportunities or respond to
threats may be impacted by limited access to funds.
432
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Failure to achieve growth through mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and other transactions
Description
The Group’s growth strategy includes a combination of organic growth as well as mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and
investments. The Group may be unable to acquire or invest in attractive businesses on favourable terms and may inappropriately value
or otherwise fail to identify or capitalise on growth opportunities. The Group may not be able to deliver strategic objectives and revenue
improvements from business combinations, successfully integrate businesses it acquires or establishes, or obtain appropriate
regulatory approvals for business combinations. Risks from integration of businesses also include the risk that the integration may
divert the Group’s focus and resources from its other strategic goals. Furthermore, transactions may include risks associated with an
unpredictable regulatory landscape, such as bans or more restrictive regulations which come into force after the acquisition.
Additionally, the Group could be exposed to financial, legal or reputational risks if it fails to appropriately consider and address any
compliance, antitrust or sustainability aspects of a transaction or planned transaction. Further, the Group has certain uncapped
indemnification obligations in connection with divestitures and could incur similar obligations in the future.
Impact
Any of the foregoing risks could result in increased costs, decreased revenues or a loss of opportunities and have an adverse effect
on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition, and in the case of a breach of compliance, product regulation or antitrust
regulation, could lead to reputational damage, fines and potentially criminal sanctions and an adverse impact on the Group's
sustainability priorities. This may impact the Group's ability to compete in the long-term.
Inability to execute planned divestments, or poorly executed divestments, may not deliver fair value, or may result in loss of potential
sale proceeds resulting in fewer resources to drive quality growth or meet other corporate targets.
The Group may become liable for claims arising in respect of conduct prior to any merger or acquisition of businesses if deemed to
be a successor to the liabilities of the acquired company or indemnification claims relating to divestitures, and any resulting adverse
judgment against the Group may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver
on its strategic growth plans.
Please refer to note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
Risk: Unforeseen underperformance in key global markets
Description
A substantial majority of the Group’s profit from operations is based on its operations in certain top markets, including the U.S.
A number of these markets are declining for a variety of factors, including price increases, restrictions on marketing activities and
promotions, smoking prevention campaigns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups, accelerated migration to reduced-risk
products and increasing prevalence of non-compliant New Categories competitors.
Economic and political factors affecting the Group’s key markets include the prevailing economic climate, governmental austerity
measures, levels of employment, inflation, governmental action to increase minimum wages, employment costs, interest rates, raw
material costs, consumer confidence and consumer pricing.
Impact
Change to the economic and political factors in any of the top markets in which the Group operates often affect consumer behaviour
and have an impact on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition. These could cause the Group to fail to deliver
on its strategic growth plans.
Risk: Increases in net liabilities under the Group’s retirement benefit schemes
Description
The Group currently maintains and contributes to defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans that cover
various categories of employees and retirees worldwide. The Group’s obligations to make contributions under these arrangements may
increase in the case of increases in pension liabilities, decreases in asset returns, salary increases, inflation, decreases in long-term
interest rates, increases in life expectancies, changes in population trends and other actuarial assumptions.
Please refer to the information under the caption ‘Retirement benefit schemes’ on page 273 and to note 15 on page 302 in the Notes on
the Accounts for details of the Group’s retirement benefit schemes.
Impact
Higher contributions to the Group’s retirement benefit schemes could have an adverse impact on the Group’s results of operations,
financial condition and ability to raise funds and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
433
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Group Risk Factors
Continued
Product pipeline, commercialisation and Intellectual Property risks
Risk: Inability to predict consumers’ changing behaviours and launch innovative products that offer adult tobacco and
nicotine consumers meaningful value-added differentiation
Description
The Group focuses its research and development activities on both creating new products, including New Categories and Beyond
Nicotine products, whilst maintaining and improving the quality of its existing products. In a competitive market, the Group believes that
innovation is key to growth. The Group considers that one of its key challenges in the medium and long term is to provide adult tobacco
and nicotine consumers with high-quality products that take into account their changing preferences and expectations, including those
in relation to sustainability, while complying with evolving regulation.
Predicting consumers’ changing needs and behaviours across categories is a critical requirement for the Group's development. The
Group is exposed to the risk it may fail to predict consumers' changing needs and behaviours across categories and fail to deliver its
strategy effectively.
The Group continues to develop and roll-out its New Categories portfolio which requires significant investment. The Group is exposed to
the risk that it may be unsuccessful in developing and launching innovative products or maintaining and improving the quality of existing
products across combustibles, New Categories and Beyond Nicotine that offer consumers meaningful value-added differentiation. The
Group must keep pace with innovation in its sector and changes in consumer expectations. The Group is also exposed to the risk of an
inability to build sufficiently strong brand equity through social media and other digital tools to successfully compete. There are potential
bans and restrictions in key markets on using social media to advertise and communicate. Competitors may be more successful in
predicting changing consumer behaviour or better able to develop and roll-out consumer-relevant products and may be able to do so
more quickly and at a lower cost.
In addition, the Group devotes considerable resources to the research and development of innovative products that may have the
potential to reduce the risks of smoking-related diseases. The complex nature of research and development programmes necessary to
satisfy emerging regulatory and scientific requirements creates a substantial risk that these programmes will fail to demonstrate health-
related claims regarding New Categories and Beyond Nicotine or to achieve adult tobacco consumer, regulatory and scientific acceptance.
Furthermore, the regulatory environment impacting non-combustible tobacco products, Vapour products and other non-tobacco
nicotine products and Beyond Nicotine, including classification of products for regulatory and excise purposes, is still developing and it
cannot be predicted whether regulations will permit the marketing of such products in any given market in the future. Categorisation as
medicines, for example, and restrictions on advertising could stifle innovation, increase complexity and costs and significantly undermine
the commercial viability of these products. Alternatively, categorisation of any New Categories, as tobacco products for instance, could
result in the application of onerous regulation, which could further stifle uptake.
Impact
The inability to timely develop and roll-out innovations or products in line with consumer demand, including any failure to predict
changes in adult tobacco consumer and societal behaviour and expectations and to fill gaps in the product portfolio, as well as the risk
of poor product quality, could lead to missed opportunities, under- or over-supply, loss of competitive advantage, unrecoverable costs
and/or the erosion of the Group’s consumer base or brand equity.
Restrictions on packaging and labelling or on promotion and advertising could impact the Group’s ability to communicate its
innovations and product differences to adult tobacco consumers, leading to unsuccessful product launches. An inability to provide
robust scientific results sufficient to substantiate health-related product claims poses a significant threat to the ability to launch
innovative products and comply with emerging regulatory and legal regimes.
The occurrence of any of the above effects could in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial
condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
In addition, there may be loss of investors’ confidence in sustainability performance, including failure to deliver our corporate purpose of
harm reduction.
434
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Risk: Exposure to risks associated with intellectual property rights, including the failure to identify, protect and prevent
infringement of the Group’s intellectual property rights and potential infringement of, or the failure to retain licences to use,
third-party intellectual property rights
Description
The Group relies on trademarks, patents, registered designs, copyrights, domain names and trade secrets. The brand names under
which the Group’s products are sold are key assets of its business. The protection and maintenance of these brand names and of the
reputation of these brands is important to the Group’s success. Protection of intellectual property rights is also important in connection
with the Group’s innovative products, including New Categories.
The Group is exposed to the risk of infringements of its intellectual property rights by third parties due to limitations in judicial
protection, failure to identify, protect and register its innovations and/or inadequate enforceability of these rights in some markets
in which the Group operates.
The Group currently is involved in various patent infringement litigation proceedings in the US related to the Group’s Vapour products.
In February 2024, a Group subsidiary entered into a settlement agreement with an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Philip Morris
International Inc. (PMI). Pursuant to this agreement (the Settlement Agreement), among other things, both parties agreed to dismiss
certain pending legal proceedings between the parties and certain of their affiliates concerning certain Vapour and Heated Products
(HP) with prejudice and without admission of liability, to fully and finally discharge without admission of liability any injunctions granted
to the parties and their respective affiliates in such proceedings, and mutually release each other from presently known and past,
present and future claims arising out of or relating to, among other things, such proceedings, the infringement of the patents at issue in
the proceedings and certain intellectual property rights relating to certain products existing on or before a specified date. The parties
also agreed to covenants not to sue, on a perpetual, royalty-bearing or royalty-free basis, as the case may be, in respect of patents
associated with certain existing or changed Vapour or HP products. The parties also agreed to covenants not to sue on a perpetual,
royalty free basis and in respect of, among other things, the manufacture of products, accessories, replacement parts and upgrade
parts, or their respective components, and research and development of such products, accessories and parts, or their respective
components. Please refer to note 31 on page 343 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities relating to patent
litigation and related settlements applicable to the Group.
Some brands and trademarks under which the Group’s products are sold are licensed for a fixed period of time in certain markets.
If any of these licences are terminated or not renewed after the end of the applicable term, the Group would no longer have the right
to use, and to sell products under, those brand(s) and trademark(s).
In addition, as third party rights are not always identifiable, the Group may be subject to claims for infringement of third party
intellectual property rights.
Impact
Any erosion in the value of the Group’s brands or innovations, or failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of intellectual
property rights for any reason, or the loss of brands, trademarks or other intellectual property rights under licence to Group companies,
may have a material adverse effect on the Group‘s market share, results of operations and financial condition. Any inability to
appropriately protect the Group’s products and key innovations will also limit its growth and affect competitiveness and return
on innovation investment.
Any infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in interim or final injunctions, product recalls, legal liability
and the payment of damages, any of which may disrupt operations, negatively impact the Group’s reputation and have an adverse
effect on its results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plan. Litigation
(even where successful) results in an intensive use of resources and management time leading to potential disruption. In addition,
although intellectual property-related settlements, such as the Settlement Agreement, allow the Group to focus on developing
innovative product solutions, they could also have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition. For
example, the payment of royalties would create higher costs for the Group, whereas the grant of licenses and/or covenants not to sue
could result in a competitive advantage of the Group’s competitors which, in turn, could result in lower demand for the Group’s own
products and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
435
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Regulation of the Group’s Business
Overview World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on
The tobacco and nicotine industry is among the most regulated Tobacco Control
in the world, with manufacturers having to navigate highly diverse Perhaps uniquely for a consumer product, a large proportion
regulatory frameworks. Nearly all countries impose restrictions of the regulation of tobacco products has been driven at global
on the manufacture, sale, marketing, and packaging of tobacco level by the World Health Organization’s international treaty:
products. In addition, regulation of non-tobacco nicotine- the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC). The
containing products is receiving increasing attention from FCTC came into force in 2005 and contains provisions which
regulators. In some cases, countries are creating new regulatory seek to reduce tobacco consumption and exposure to smoke.
regimes for these new categories. In others, new products may be The original treaty is supplemented by one protocol on illicit
included within existing frameworks that were not designed for trade and guidelines on the implementation of several of the
and may not necessarily be suitable for that category – for treaty obligations.
example, Modern Oral products being regulated under pharmaceutical
While the guidelines are not legally binding, they provide a
regimes. The Group continues to engage with governments and
framework for Parties to the treaty on implementing specific
other bodies to find reasonable solutions to these issues.
policies that target tobacco consumption. To date, the FCTC
Broadly, regulation of tobacco and new categories falls into the has been ratified by 183 countries - not including the U.S.
following categories:
One of the effects of the FCTC has been to increase efforts by
Category bans: Prohibitions on the sale, import, possession, tobacco control advocates and public health organisations to
or use of specific products, including new categories. encourage governments to regulate the tobacco and nicotine
Product: Regulations on use of ingredients, product design and industry beyond the measures agreed to in the FCTC. The
attributes (e.g. nicotine strength or flavours), as well as product consequence of this is that the scope of areas regulated is likely
safety standards and product disclosure requirements. to further expand, potentially including areas and products not
originally envisaged as being covered by the treaty.
Packaging and labelling: Requirements for health warnings and
other government-mandated messages to be printed on For instance, the World Health Organization and other public
packaging, as well as requirements around pack shape, size, health organisations have focused efforts on widening the scope
weight and colour, plain packaging requirements or markings of the FCTC beyond the text to encompass Reduced-Risk
required for single-use plastics. Products*† (RRPs). This includes decisions such as subjecting
tobacco heated products (THPs) to the FCTC, recommending
Advertising and sponsorship: Partial or total bans on advertising,
stricter regulations for RRPs, and advocating for the application of
promotions and sponsorships for products, as well as brand
existing cigarette regulations to RRPs.
stretching (the association between a tobacco and a non-tobacco
product by using tobacco branding on the non-tobacco product), All engagement efforts of the tobacco industry are closely
and restrictions on the use of certain descriptors and brand names. monitored by these organisations and are often (erroneously)
characterised as unlawful industry interference. In turn, this has an
Retail: Restrictions on where tobacco and non-tobacco nicotine
impact on the willingness of Parties to engage with the industry,
products can be sold, such as the types of outlets (e.g.
which limits the opportunity for the industry to provide its
supermarkets and vending machines), restrictions on how they
experience and expertise in the development of regulation.
can be sold (e.g. above-the-counter versus beneath, or online),
and restrictions on adult purchase. The last session of the Conference of the Parties to the FCTC
(COP10) took place in February 2024 where two Expert Groups
Place: Bans on smoking or vaping in certain places.
were established. The first focused on new tobacco-control
Price: Regulations which affect prices of tobacco and non-tobacco measures under Article 2.1 of the WHO FCTC – which encourages
nicotine products, such as excise taxes and minimum pricing. Parties to implement measures beyond those included in the
Responsibility: Obligations under Extended Producer FCTC. The other focused on liability under Article 19 – which calls
Responsibility schemes (e.g. cigarette waste clean-up) and for Parties to consider legislative action to deal with criminal and
measures to combat illicit trade. civil liability related to tobacco control).
The Group also operates a number of global policies which may New guidelines were also adopted during COP10, aimed at curbing
impose additional obligations or standards beyond those required online marketing of tobacco and nicotine products aimed at youth.
by local regulatory regimes. Additionally, a decision was made to address the environmental
impacts of tobacco under Article 18 of the FCTC, which pertains to
The Group recognises and supports the objectives of governments
environmental protection. Other decisions included promoting
and policymakers in reducing smoking rates and the associated
human rights and strengthening the WHO FCTC Investment Fund.
health impacts, as well as the role of regulation in achieving these
The session concluded with the Panama Declaration, which
goals. Accordingly, the Group endorses tobacco and nicotine
stressed the need for more effective implementation of the FCTC.
regulations that are grounded in robust evidence, tailored to
The next meeting will take place in Geneva in November 2025.
local circumstances, effectively achieve intended policy objectives,
and avoid unintended consequences, such as the expansion of EU Tobacco and Related Products Directive (2014/40/EU)
illegal markets. The most recent version of the EU Tobacco and Related Products
Progressive regulations, including forward-thinking policies for Directive (2014/40/EU – colloquially called TPD2), which is the
Smokeless products, are essential to Build a Smokeless World current main framework for tobacco and nicotine product regulation
and deliver governments’ smoke-free ambitions. for EU Member States, was adopted in April 2014 for transposition
by May 2016. TPD2 seeks to ensure that the same rules apply across
The Group believes that the development of regulations for
all Member States, though they are also able to go beyond its
Smokeless products, should follow the below principles:
requirements provided such measures are compatible with EU law.
–be based on science and evidence, and proportionate to the
products’ risks compared with those of combustible tobacco
–facilitate adult awareness of smokeless alternatives and
allowing adult-only access
–ensure product quality, environmental sustainability, and
consumer relevance; and
–enable effective enforcement.
436
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
For tobacco products, the main provisions of TPD2 include: a ban Restrictions on the Use of Tobacco and Vapour Products
on the sale of cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with a in Public and Private Places
characterising flavour, including menthol flavours; requirements The Group operates across various markets where restrictions
for combined pictorial and textual health warnings covering 65% are in place on smoking and vaping in certain private, public,
of the two main pack surfaces (front and back) for cigarettes; and workplace settings, such as restaurants, bars, beaches,
restrictions on pack shape and size, as well as ingredients and nightclubs. While the specifics of these restrictions vary,
reporting and ‘tracking and tracing’ requirements. The Directive comprehensive bans on smoking, vaping and the use of THPs in public
also regulates vapour products by introducing a nicotine limit of and workplace environments have been established in markets such
20 mg/ml, a premarket notification requirement and ingredient as the U.S., Canada, the UK, France, Spain, New Zealand, and
reporting requirements and advertising restrictions. Australia. More recently, new restrictions have included restrictions
In May 2021, the European Commission published a report on the use of such products within a specified distance from
reviewing the implementation of the Directive which concluded it designated public areas, such as primary schools, and/or in private
had been successful in reducing tobacco use but that more action places such as vehicles when children are present.
was required, particularly on new categories such as vapour and Regulation of Ingredients, Including Flavoured Products
tobacco heating products (THPs).
Some countries have restricted or banned the use of certain
A revised legal instrument (TPD3), which may come in the form flavours or ingredients in cigarettes and other tobacco products,
of a directly applicable EU Regulation that does not require and vapour products. These actions are based on claims that
transposition into national law, is currently being drafted. The flavoured products disproportionately appeal to minors, encourage
European Commission is expected to come forward with a youth smoking initiation or can increase the addictiveness or toxicity
proposed revised text in early 2025. of products. In these cases, permitted flavours are often limited to
Specific measures in TPD3 are yet to be confirmed, but recent tobacco and/or menthol variants only - varying by country/state as
Commission publications such as Europe’s Beating Cancer Plan some have also prohibited the use of menthol flavours.
have suggested that for tobacco, they may include plain packaging Such restrictions have been enacted in markets including the U.S.,
requirements, stricter ingredient rules and a ban on menthol in all Canada, Australia and Türkiye. The EU’s TPD2 similarly banned the
tobacco products. For vapour products, changes may include sale of cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with characterising
flavour and stronger advertising restrictions and the extension of flavours other than tobacco. However, some regulations relating
regulation to nicotine-free products. to flavours currently face legal challenges. In Brazil, for example,
Stricter rules are also expected for THPs, which have already a proposed ban on ingredients with flavouring or aromatic properties,
recently been subjected to the ban on characterising flavours under including menthol, remains unenforced due to ongoing litigation.
the TPD2 using a Delegated Act (see the Regulation of Ingredients, Additionally, regulators in Europe are increasingly examining
including Flavoured Tobacco Products section for details). There restrictions on flavours and other ingredients for RRPs. For
are also indications that a revised Directive could seek to regulate example, Hungary, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway
nicotine pouches, either by creating a new framework or potentially have adopted, or are considering adopting, restrictions on flavours
seeking to ban the category. It is currently unclear if other types of for vapour products. In 2023, an instrument (called a Delegated
nicotine products such as Herbal Products for Heating might also Directive), issued by the European Commission, extended the ban
be addressed by TPD3. in the TPD2 on characterising flavours for tobacco products to also
EU and Single-Use Plastics apply to THPs. While this remains subject to legal challenges, the
majority of EU Member States have now transposed and
The Single Use Plastics Directive (EU) 2019/904 (the SUP Directive)
implemented this ban.
entered into force in July 2019. It mandates Member States to establish
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) schemes to cover the costs of Further legislation on ingredients for both cigarettes and RRPs
litter clean-up and to implement on-pack marking requirements for is expected. The Conference of Parties to the FCTC has tasked a
tobacco product filters. Member States were required to transpose the working group to expand the partial guidelines on the regulation
SUP Directive into national law by 3 July 2021, with an implementation of the contents of tobacco products and tobacco product
deadline of 3 July 2021 for pack marking requirements and of 5 January disclosures (see Articles 9 and 10 of the FCTC). The work of this
2023 for EPR schemes. group was suspended in 2018 and an expert group was created to
examine the reasons for low implementation of Articles 9 and 10,
However, several Member States experienced delays in transposition
and related partial guidelines. This Expert Group presented its
and implementation, which have resulted in EPR schemes becoming
report in 2021. There was no agreement at COP10 regarding
operational months, and in some cases years, behind schedule. Spain,
whether to continue work on these Articles via a Working Group
for example, published its implementing regulations in late 2024. The
or an Expert Group, and the topic has stalled – pending further
European Commission has also delayed issuing guidelines on the cost
discussion at COP11 in 2025.
criteria for litter clean-up, which were expected before the EPR
schemes’ implementation deadline. Plain and Standardised Packaging and Design
France was the only EU Member State to implement EPR schemes Plain (or ‘standardised’) packaging typically involves restrictions on
ahead of the 5 January 2023 deadline, having introduced schemes for using trademarks, logos, and colours on product packaging,
cigarette manufacturers, among others, in December 2020 and allowing only a single approved colour and specifying the font, size,
February 2021. An evaluation of the SUP Directive is planned for 2027 to and placement of the brand name and variant. Tobacco control
assess its impact and guide potential revisions. A call for evidence is advocates have tended to prioritise these measures, with non-
expected soon, with a public consultation scheduled for Q4 2025. binding FCTC guidelines suggesting that Parties "should" consider
adopting plain packaging.
Similar legislation has been enacted or is under consideration in other
countries, including Canada, Russia, South Korea, and at various sub- As of November 2024, 28 countries have either implemented
federal levels in the United States. Internationally, or passed legislation for plain packaging requirements impacting
the United Nations Environment Programme’s Intergovernmental cigarettes, including Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France,
Negotiating Committee is working on a legally binding global Ireland, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
agreement on plastic pollution. Türkiye and the UK. A number of other countries, including but not
limited to Spain, South Africa and Indonesia, are currently actively
Notes:
considering introducing similar legislation.
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette
smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
† Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus,
are subject to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these
products without agency clearance
437
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Regulation of the Group’s Business
Continued
Moreover, in several cases, particularly in Europe, RRPs have been In countries where sales of vapour products are permitted,
subject to plain packaging requirements. Denmark introduced governments are seeking to regulate them more strictly, including
plain packaging for both vapour products and THPs in 2022, by adopting bans on vaping in public places, restrictions on flavour,
followed by Finland in 2023, and Australia and Norway in 2024. plain packaging and retail display bans. An increasing number of
Canada and Israel have plain packaging requirements for THPs, governments have moved to ban the sale of single-use vapour
while Belgium and the Netherlands are considering similar products, with Belgium implementing a ban in January 2025, and
measures for certain RRPs. the U.K. and New Zealand to follow suit later this year.
More recently, some regulators and tobacco control advocates
have examined measures which could apply to individual Other RRPs such as nicotine pouches and THPs are also facing
cigarettes, such as mandatory on-product health messages. increasing scrutiny. In many jurisdictions, existing legislative
A series of such messages was approved in Canada and Australia, definitions of ‘tobacco products’ are interpreted to apply to THPs,
and regular cigarettes will be required to carry the messages as of thereby subjecting them to the same restrictions as those
April 2025 in both jurisdictions. Additionally, some countries have designed for traditional combustible tobacco products, often
taken an interest in regulating the design of vapour product without any need to change existing laws.
devices and refill containers to standardise their colour, for
Countries including Brazil, India and Mexico, have expressly banned
example. This is currently being considered in Norway.
or are seeking to ban all RRPs while others, such as Australia,
Product Display Bans at Point of Sale and Licensing regulate vapour products as medicinal products, thereby heavily
Regimes restricting their sale. A number of countries, including Netherlands,
Product display bans at the point of sale and licensing regimes Belgium and Germany have implemented a ban on Modern Oral
have become relatively commonplace for combustible tobacco products, either through provisions banning their sale outright, or
products and have been implemented for several years in a via classification as foodstuffs, meaning their sale is de facto
number of countries, including in Norway, Iceland, Finland, New prohibited. Other jurisdictions have sought to implement bans via
Zealand, Thailand, Canada, Australia, and the UK. A small number their classification as tobacco substitutes or medicinal products.
of countries have also sought to extend these provisions to apply It is considered likely that tobacco-free nicotine pouches will be
to RRPs. regulated at a European level as part of the next revision of the
Some countries, such as Hungary, Finland and Spain, have also Tobacco Products Directive.
sought to restrict the supply of tobacco products, including Additional measures
through the adoption of licensing regimes limiting the number Generational Sales Bans (GSB) are among the latest significant
of retail outlets from which it is possible to purchase tobacco developments to be discussed in tobacco control policy. These
products or by prohibiting the sale of tobacco products seek to ban the sale of tobacco products (and, sometimes,
within a certain distance of specified public places. nicotine) to anyone born after a certain date, meaning they
Illicit Trade would never legally be allowed to purchase tobacco products
The illegal market for tobacco products is an increasingly in their lifetime.
important issue for governments and the industry across the New Zealand became the first country to legislate for such a ban
world with an increasing number considering or adopting in 2022 by passing an Act to ban sales to anyone born on or after
regulation to support anti-illicit trade activities. 1 January 2009. However, the measures were later repealed by a
These regulations may include mandatory "tracking and tracing" successor Government, due to concerns over enforcement and
systems to help regulators identify where seized products entered the potential for the creation of a significant black market.
the supply chain, security features to prevent counterfeiting, and Similarly, the Malaysian Government sought to introduce GSB
inspection and authentication requirements for seized products. provisions in a bill in 2023. These were also removed due to
For instance, the TPD2 mandates that all unit packets of tobacco concerns that the measures would be unconstitutional.
be marked with a unique, indelible identifier that provides various The UK Government is the latest to consider legislation to
details about the product’s route-to-market when scanned. implement a generational sales ban for tobacco products,
In November 2012, FCTC Parties adopted the Protocol to Eliminate including THPs. The Turkish Government is also reported to be
Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, which includes a range of supply drafting a bill with similar provisions, while both the Australian
chain control measures, such as the implementation of "tracking and Norwegian Governments have indicated they are evaluating
and tracing" technologies. As of 8 January 2024, 68 parties, comparable policies. Some individual lawmakers in various
including the EU, have ratified the Protocol. countries have attempted to introduce bills aiming to ban sales
of tobacco to future generations. However, as no country has
Regulation of Reduced-Risk Products*† (RRPs)
implemented such measures yet, the real-world impacts are yet
The vapour products category has grown rapidly in both size and to be tested.
complexity in the past decade. However, there is still no consensus
Another key measure that has garnered attention from regulators
on how RRPs should be regulated. The TPD2, for example,
in recent years is the proposal to gradually reduce the nicotine
establishes frameworks for the regulation of novel tobacco
content in combustible tobacco products to levels that are
products and vapour products by introducing nicotine limits,
‘minimal’ or ‘non-addictive’. Notable countries that have initiated
health warning requirements, advertising restrictions and pre-
significant discussions on these proposals include New Zealand,
market notification and post-market disclosure obligations. As
where the measure was approved in Parliament but subsequently
noted above, the World Health Organization and other public
repealed by the successor government, with concerns expressed
health organisations have also sought to widen the scope of the
as to the efficacy of such a method for cessation and its potential
FCTC to include RRPs.
to contribute significantly to illicit trade. In the U.S., plans to
introduce a similar policy have been removed from the
Government’s list of immediate priorities.
438
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
The U.S. In October 2023, the FDA issued a marketing denial order for Vuse Alto
Through the Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) subsidiaries, the Group menthol and mixed-berry (the latter of which was not on the market).
is subject to U.S. federal, state, and local laws and regulations. The We have received court-ordered stays of enforcement of the FDA’s
Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (FSPTCA), denial orders for currently marketed menthol Vuse Alto, Solo, and Vibe
which was enacted in 2009, grants the U.S. Food & Drug products, which means these Vuse menthol products can continue to
Administration (FDA) broad authority over the manufacture, sale, be marketed and sold while the judicial review process continues. In a
marketing, and packaging of tobacco products but initially limited case FDA v. Wages & White Lion Investments, L.L.C, the U.S. Supreme
the FDA’s authority to cigarettes, smokeless tobacco products, Court will likely decide whether FDA’s marketing denial orders of that
cigarette tobacco and roll-your-own tobacco products. Elements company’s flavoured products were legal. The impact of the Wages &
of the FSPTCA include: filing of facility registrations, product White Lion decision on our claims will depend on the specifics of the
listing, constituent testing and ingredient information; obtaining Court’s opinion, but we have distinguishable arguments even in the
the FDA's clearance for new products and product modifications; event of an adverse decision against that company. There can be no
banning all characterising flavours other than tobacco or menthol assurance, however, that the Vuse menthol or other flavours-related
in cigarettes; establishing ‘user fees’ to fund the FDA’s regulation appeals will succeed. The U.S. Supreme Court also will rule in 2025 on
of tobacco products; requiring large pictorial warnings to be one aspect of R.J. Reynolds Vapor Company’s challenge to FDA’s denial
included on cigarette packaging and advertising; directing FDA to of menthol and mixed-berry Alto. Specifically, the FDA argues that the
establish good manufacturing practices; revising the labelling and case should not have been filed in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.
advertising requirements for smokeless tobacco products; and Even if the FDA prevails at the U.S. Supreme Court, however, the
requiring the study of menthol. The U.S. Congress did limit the decision will be limited to the question of whether the case was filed in
FDA’s authority in various ways, including prohibiting it from: the correct court.
–Banning categories of tobacco products; and In July 2024, the FDA issued marketing granted orders for the Vuse Alto
–Requiring the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product device as well as Vuse Alto Rich Tobacco and Golden Tobacco. The
to zero. Group’s Velo products remain on the market in the U.S., pending the
FDA's decisions on their premarket tobacco product applications and
On 10 May 2016, the FDA issued a final regulation, referred to as
there can be no assurance these applications will be granted. If the FDA
the Deeming Rule, deeming all remaining products that are “made
denies a marketing authorisation, then the relevant product(s) would
or derived from tobacco” to be subject to the FDA’s regulatory
need to be withdrawn from the market (unless a court, or the agency
authority under the FSPTCA. The Deeming Rule became effective
via supervisory review, intervenes).
as of 8 August 2016, though some requirements of the Deeming
Rule had their own compliance dates. Such ‘deemed’ tobacco Legislation granting the FDA authority over synthetic nicotine products
products subject to the FSPTCA include, among others, electronic (products containing nicotine not ‘made or derived from tobacco’) went
nicotine delivery systems (including e-cigarettes, e-hookah, e-cigars, into effect in April 2022, which required manufacturers of such
vape pens, advanced refillable personal vapourisers, electronic pipes products to file PMTAs by a May 2022 deadline to continue marketing
and e-liquids mixed in vape shops), certain dissolvable tobacco those products.
products, cigars, pipe tobacco, and nicotine pouches. In July 2024, the Group acquired the marketing rights to synthetic
The ‘pre-existing products’ date under the Final Rule for newly nicotine pouch products that had submitted PMTAs by the May 2022
deemed products remained the same as the ‘pre-existing deadline. Those products are marketed as Velo Plus Pouches and
products’ date for those tobacco products already subject to the Grizzly Pouches. The application for those products remain under the
FSPTCA – 15 February 2007 (known as ‘Pre-Existing Tobacco FDA’s review and, consistent with FDA enforcement priorities, may
Products’). Any tobacco product that was not legally marketed as continue to be marketed pending further FDA action. There can be no
of 15 February 2007 is considered a new tobacco product subject assurance that the application will be granted.
to premarket review by the FDA. The FDA established a Comprehensive Plan for Tobacco and Nicotine Regulation
compliance policy allowing all newly deemed new tobacco On 28 July 2017, the FDA announced its intent to develop a
products that were on the market as of 8 August 2016 to remain comprehensive plan for tobacco and nicotine regulation that
on the market so long as the manufacturer filed a Premarket recognises the continuum of risk for nicotine delivery. As part
Tobacco Product Application (PMTA) by a specific deadline of that plan, the FDA planned to publish an Advance Notice of
(9 September 2020). Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) to seek public input regarding the
In October 2019, R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company filed PMTAs for potential health benefits and possible adverse effects of lowering
Vuse Solo. Based upon requirements of the FSPTCA that must be the level of nicotine in combustible cigarettes. The FDA also
addressed in PMTAs, and the FDA’s Guidance regarding the type announced its intent to issue ANPRMs requesting public
of evidence required for such applications, the costs of preparing stakeholder input on the impact of flavours (including menthol)
a PMTA are significant. R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company thereafter in increased initiation among youth and young adults as well as
filed PMTAs for the remaining Vuse products (Vibe, Ciro, and Alto) assisting adult smokers to switch to potentially less harmful
and the Velo products (pouch and lozenge) by the September forms of nicotine delivery, and the patterns of use and public
2020 deadline. Certain additional data from ongoing research health impact of premium cigars.
relevant to the Alto and Velo applications were submitted as This follows on from the FDA’s decision to issue its own
amendments to the PMTAs during the FDA review process. preliminary scientific evaluation regarding menthol cigarettes
The FDA issued marketing granted orders for the Vuse Solo device in 2013, which concluded that menthol cigarettes adversely
and its tobacco (‘original’) flavour in October 2021, but issued a affect initiation, addiction and cessation compared to
marketing denial order for Vuse Solo flavours other than menthol non-menthol cigarettes.
(which were not on the market). That denial is being appealed with
the FDA. In May 2022, the FDA issued marketing granted orders
for the Vuse Vibe device and its tobacco flavour and the Ciro
device and its tobacco flavour but issued a marketing denial order
for flavours other than menthol (which were not on the market).
R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company has appealed the denials issued for
the relevant Vuse Vibe and Ciro products by requesting further
Notes:
Agency review. We have received and are challenging the FDA's
* Based on the weight of evidence and assuming a complete switch from cigarette
marketing denial orders dated January 2023 related to Vibe and smoking. These products are not risk free and are addictive.
Ciro (menthol variants). † Our products as sold in the U.S., including Vuse, Velo, Grizzly, Kodiak, and Camel Snus,
are subject to FDA regulation and no reduced-risk claims will be made as to these
products without agency clearance.
439
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Regulation of the Group’s Business
Continued
In March 2018, the Agency issued three ANPRMs, seeking On 18 March 2020, the FDA issued a rule mandating the
information on (1) the lowering of nicotine levels to non-addictive incorporation on cigarettes packages and advertising of graphic
or minimally addictive levels, (2) the impact of flavours (including health warnings. The rule required eleven new textual warnings, each
menthol) in increased initiation among youth and young adults accompanied by a specific graphic image, on the top 50% of the
as well as assisting adult smokers to switch to potentially less front and back of all cigarette packages, on the left 50% of the front
harmful forms of nicotine delivery, and (3) the patterns of use and and back of cigarette cartons, and 20% of all cigarette advertising in
public health impact of premium cigars. In April 2022, the FDA a location at the top of each advertisement, beginning 18 June 2021.
published a proposed product standard that would ban menthol On 3 April 2020, RAI subsidiaries R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
as a characterising flavour in cigarettes. The FDA accepted public and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, in conjunction with several
comment on this proposed rule through August 2022. RAI Services cigarette manufacturers and retailers, filed a lawsuit seeking an order
Company submitted a detailed comment and judgment holding unlawful, enjoining, and setting aside the rule
to the FDA (available on the U.S. Government's Regulations.gov in its entirety. The court, following multiple orders to delay the
website) opposing the proposed rule as unsupported by existing implementation of the rule, invalidated it as unconstitutional in
scientific evidence and with the potential for negative unintended December 2022. In February 2023, the FDA appealed this decision to
consequences. The Biden administration initially announced a non- the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. On 21 March 2024, the
binding target date of August 2023 for issuing the final rule. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit issued its opinion reversing
administration then pushed the target date back to March 2024. the court’s decision, and concluding that the warnings are constitutional.
Then, in April 2024, the Administration announced that the On 25 November 2024, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review
final rule would be further delayed, and the final rule has yet the Fifth Circuit’s decision. Plaintiffs continue to pursue their
to be issued. remaining statutory claims against the rule in district court.
In December 2022, the sale of all tobacco products with On 13 January 2025, the District Court entered an order postponing
characterising flavours other than tobacco (including menthol) the effective date of the rule pending final disposition of the
were banned in the state of California. remaining statutory claims. That order may be appealed.
Additional regulation Under the prior Biden administration, the FDA announced its
In April 2019, the FDA issued a proposed rule on the format and intention to issue a final rule to ban menthol as a characterising
content of reports to demonstrate substantial equivalence. This flavour in cigarettes. In January 2025, the Trump administration
follows on from the FDA’s previous statements regarding the withdrew the rule from the Office of Management and Budget and it
development of foundational rules so as to provide clarity and is currently held pending the new Trump administration’s
predictability to the tobacco product submission process, reconsideration of regulations advanced by Biden.
including not only substantial equivalence applications but new
On 15 January 2025, in the final days of the outgoing Biden
product applications as well as MRTP applications. In September
administration, the FDA issued a proposed product standard
2019, the FDA published a proposed rule on the format and
whereby the agency would limit nicotine level in cigarettes following
content of PMTAs.
a two-year effective date from publication of any final rule. The
The final foundational rules for substantial equivalence and PMTAs proposed rule is currently subject to public comment, but may be de-
were published on 5 October 2021 and became effective on 4 prioritised by the Trump administration as it considers all proposed
November 2021. The FDA has not yet promulgated its proposed regulations advanced by the Biden administration. Thus, it is not
rule for MRTP applications. known whether or when this proposed rule will be finalised, and, if
Under the FSPTCA, for a manufacturer to launch a new tobacco adopted, whether the final rule will be the same as or similar to the
product or modify an existing tobacco product after 15 February proposed rule.
2007, the manufacturer must obtain an order from the FDA Cigarettes and other tobacco products are subject to substantial
authorising the new or modified product to be marketed. One taxes in the U.S. All states and the District of Columbia currently
exception is that a manufacturer that introduced a cigarette or impose cigarette excise taxes. Certain city and county governments,
smokeless tobacco product between 15 February 2007 and 22 such as those of New York City, Philadelphia, and Chicago, also
March 2011 could file a substantial equivalence report with the FDA impose substantial excise taxes on cigarettes sold
demonstrating either (1) that the new or modified product had the in those jurisdictions. Also, all states and the District of Columbia
same characteristics as a product commercially available as at currently subject smokeless tobacco products to excise taxes.
15 February 2007, referred to as a predicate product, or (2) if the Various states and the District of Columbia impose a tax on Vapour
new or modified product had different characteristics than the products, such as e-cigarettes, and many other states have
predicate product, that it did not raise different questions of public proposed taxes on Vapour products. Currently, there is no federal tax
health. A product subject to such report is referred to as a on Vapour products.
provisional product. A manufacturer may continue to market a
State and local governments also consider and implement other
provisional product unless and until the FDA issues an order that
legislation and regulation regarding the sale of tobacco products.
the provisional product is not substantially equivalent, in which
Measures include, among others, limiting or prohibiting the sale
case the FDA could then require the manufacturer to remove the
of flavours in tobacco products, restricting where tobacco
provisional product from the market. Many of the RAI subsidiaries’
products may be sold and increasing the minimum age to
cigarette and smokeless tobacco products currently on the market
purchase tobacco products.
are provisional products.
The Group believes that, as a responsible business, it can contribute
In January 2017, the FDA issued its first proposed product standard
through information, ideas and practical steps, to help regulators
whereby the Agency would require the reduction, over a three-year
address the key issues regarding its products, including underage
period, of the levels of N-nitrosonornicotine (NNN) contained in
access, illicit trade, product information, product design, involuntary
smokeless tobacco products. Since issuing this proposal, the
exposure to smoke and the development of potentially less harmful
Agency has simply stated that it is evaluating submitted comments.
products, while maintaining a competitive market that
The FDA’s semi-annual regulatory agenda has not listed the NNN
accommodates the significant percentage of adults who choose to
proposal since its publication. Thus, it is not known whether or
be tobacco consumers. The Group is committed to working with
when this proposed rule will be finalised, and, if adopted, whether
national governments and multilateral organisations and welcomes
the final rule will be the same as or similar to the proposed rule.
opportunities to participate in good faith to achieve sensible and
balanced regulation of traditional tobacco and potentially RRPs.
440
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Material Contracts
The Master Settlement Agreement The BAT Group is subject to substantial payment obligations under
& State Settlement Agreements the MSA and the state settlement agreements with the states of
In 1998, the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers (including Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (such settlement
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Lorillard and Brown & Williamson, agreements, collectively “State Settlement Agreements”). Reynolds
businesses which are now part of Reynolds American) entered into American Inc.'s operating subsidiaries' expenses and payments
the Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) with attorneys general under the MSA and the State Settlement Agreements for 2024
representing most U.S. states and territories. The MSA imposes a amounted to US$2,160 million in respect of settlement expenses
perpetual stream of future payment obligations on the major U.S. and US$2,535 million in respect of settlement cash payments; for
cigarette manufacturers. The amounts of money that the 2023 amounted to US$2,516 million in respect of settlement
participating manufacturers are required to annually contribute are expenses and US$2,874 million in respect of settlement cash
based upon, among other things, the volume of cigarettes sold and payments; for 2022 amounted to US$2,951 million in respect of
market share (based on cigarette shipments in that year). settlement expenses and US$3,129 million in respect of settlement
cash payments; for 2021 amounted to US$3,420 million in respect
During 2012, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, various other
of settlement expenses and US$3,744 million in respect of
tobacco manufacturers, 17 states, the District of Columbia and
settlement cash payments; for 2020 amounted to US$3,572 million
Puerto Rico reached a final agreement related to Reynolds
in respect of settlement expenses and US$2,848 million in respect
American’s 2003 MSA activities, and three more states joined the
of settlement cash payments; and for 2019 amounted to
agreement in 2013. Under this agreement, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
US$2,762 million in respect of settlement expenses and
Company has received credits of more than US$1 billion in respect
US$2,918 million in respect of settlement cash payments.
of its Non-Participating Manufacturer (NPM) Adjustment claims
related to the period from 2003 to 2012. These credits have been R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company divested certain brands to Imperial
applied against the company’s MSA payments over a period of five Tobacco Group (ITG) in 2015. In 2020, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
years from 2013, subject to, and dependent upon, meeting the Company recognised additional expenses, included above, under the
various ongoing performance obligations. During 2014, two State Settlement Agreements in the states of Mississippi, Florida,
additional states agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims Texas and Minnesota related to these divested brands. R.J. Reynolds
for the period 2003 to 2012. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Tobacco Company recognised US$241 million of expense for
received US$170 million in credits, which have been applied over payment obligations to the state of Florida for the ITG acquired
a five-year period from 2014. During 2015, another state agreed to brands from the date of divestiture, 12 June 2015, as a result of an
settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2014. unfavourable judgment. In addition, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company received US$285 million in credits, recognised US$264 million related to the resolution of claims against
which have been applied over a four-year period from 2016. During it in the states of Texas, Minnesota and Mississippi for payment
2016, no additional states agreed to settle NPM disputes. During obligations to those states for the ITG acquired brands from the date
2017, two more states agreed to settle NPM disputes related to of divestiture. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company settled certain related
claims for the period 2004 to 2014. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company claims with Phillip Morris USA under the State Settlement
received US$61 million in credits, which have been applied over a Agreements in the states of Mississippi, Texas and Minnesota for
five-year period from 2017. During 2018, nine more states agreed to US$8 million. Finally, in June 2022, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2019, settled PM USA's claims relating to the calculation of the base-year
with an option through 2022, subject to certain conditions. R.J. net operating profits for the ITG acquired brands for US$37 million.
Reynolds Tobacco Company received US$182 million in credits for
Other Agreements
settled periods through 2017, which have been applied over a five-
year period from 2018. Also in 2018, a 10th additional state agreed Settlement Agreement between Nicoventures
to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to Trading Limited and Philip Morris Products S.A.
2024, subject to certain conditions. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
On 1 February 2024, Nicoventures Trading Limited, an indirect,
Company received US$205 million in credits for settled periods
wholly-owned subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., entered
through 2017, which have been applied over a five-year period from
into a settlement agreement with Philip Morris Products S.A., an
2019. In the first quarter of 2020, certain conditions set forth in the
indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Philip Morris International Inc.
2018 agreements were met for those 10 states. In addition, in
(the Settlement Agreement).
August 2020, 24 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico
agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2018 Pursuant to this Settlement Agreement, among other things, both
to 2022. In 2022, an additional state settled NPM disputes related parties have agreed to take all actions, as necessary, to dismiss with
to claims for the period 2005 to 2028. It is estimated that R.J. prejudice, subject to certain limited exceptions, certain pending legal
Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive US$130 million in credits proceedings between the parties and their respective affiliates
for settled periods through 2018, which will be applied over a five- concerning certain Vapour products and Heated Products (HP)
year period from 2022. In 2023, an additional state settled NPM (including devices and consumables) without admission of liability, and
disputes related to claims for the period 2005 to 2029. It is to fully and finally discharge without admission of liability any
estimated that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive a credit injunctions granted to the parties and their respective affiliates in such
of US$29 million for settled periods through 2018, which will be proceedings. The parties have also agreed to a mutual release of
applied over a five-year period from 2024. In the first quarter of presently known and past, present and future claims arising out of or
2024, an additional state settled NPM disputes related to claims for relating to, among other things, such proceedings, the infringement of
the period 2005 to 2031. It is estimated that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco the patents at issue in the proceedings and certain intellectual property
Company will receive a credit of US$11 million for settled periods rights relating to certain products existing on or before a specified date.
through 2018, which will be applied over a five-year period from Additionally, the parties have agreed to covenants not to sue, on a
2024. In the third quarter of 2024, an additional state settled NPM perpetual, royalty-bearing or royalty-free basis, as the case may be,
disputes related to claims for the period 2005 to 2011. It is in respect of patents associated with certain existing or changed
estimated that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive a credit Vapour or HP products. The parties have also agreed to covenants
of US$69 million for settled periods through 2011, which will be not to sue on a perpetual, royalty-free basis in respect of, among
applied over a five-year period from 2026. Credits in respect of other things, the manufacture of products, accessories,
future years’ payments and the NPM Adjustment claims would be replacement parts and upgrade parts, or their respective
accounted for in the applicable year and will not be treated as components, and research and development of such products,
adjusting items. Only credits in respect of prior year payments are accessories, replacement parts, upgrade parts and components.
included as adjusting items. The Settlement Agreement is for a term of eight years from
1 February 2024 and is substantially worldwide in scope.
441
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Material Contracts
Continued
Significant agreements
Change of Control Provisions as at 31 December 2024
Nature of agreement Key provisions
The revolving credit facilities agreement, effective 12 March 2020 –should a borrower (other than the Company) cease to be a direct
and 6 March 2023, entered into between the Company, B.A.T. or indirect subsidiary of the Company, such borrower shall
International Finance p.l.c., B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V. and immediately repay any outstanding advances made to it and shall
B.A.T Capital Corporation (as borrowers and, in the case of the cease to be a borrower under the Facility; and
Company, as a guarantor) and HSBC Bank plc (as agent) and –where there is a change of control in respect of the Company,
certain financial institutions (as lenders), pursuant to which the the lenders can require all amounts outstanding under the Facility
lenders have agreed to make available to the borrowers to be repaid.
£5.4 billion for general corporate purposes (the Facility).
During 2024, the Group arranged, extended and/or renewed –should the borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary
short-term bilateral facilities with core relationship banks for of the Company, the borrower shall immediately repay any
a total amount of £2.4 billion. B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c. outstanding advances made to it under these facilities; and
is the borrower under these facilities and the Company is the –where there is a change of control in respect of the Company,
guarantor. As at 31 December 2024, nil was drawn on a short- the lenders can require all amounts outstanding under these
term basis. facilities to be repaid.
On 25 July 2017, the Company acceded as a guarantor under –with respect to each series of debt securities issued under the
the indenture of its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary Reynolds indenture, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit
American Inc.. The securities issued under the indenture include ratings downgrade of the series to below investment-grade level
approximately US$6.7 billion aggregate principal amount of (such downgrade occurring on any date from the date of the
unsecured Reynolds American Inc. debt securities. public notice of an arrangement that could result in a change of
control event until the end of the 60-day period following public
notice of the occurrence of a change of control event), Reynolds
American Inc. is obligated to make an offer to repurchase all debt
securities from each holder of debt securities. As a guarantor
under the indenture, the Company guarantees such payments.
Rules for the awards under the long-term incentive plans 2007 –in the event of a change of control of the Company as a result
and 2016 (“LTIPs”), Restricted Share Plan (“RSP"), 2019 Deferred of a takeover, reconstruction or winding-up of the Company (not
Annual Share Bonus Scheme ("DSBS") and 2016 Sharesave being an internal reorganisation), LTIP, RSP, DSBS and Sharesave
Scheme ("Sharesave"). awards will vest (and in the case of an option, become exercisable
for a limited period) based on the period of time that has elapsed
since the date of the award and the achievement of the
performance conditions (if applicable) at that date (performance
conditions are applicable to the LTIP only), unless the
Remuneration Committee determines this not to be appropriate
in the circumstances; and
–the rules of the LTIPs, RSP, DSBS and Sharesave allow (as an
alternative to early release) that participants may, if permitted,
exchange their existing awards for new awards of shares
in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
442
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group uses a combination of in-house and contract manufacturers to manufacture its products.
BAT-owned manufacturing facilities1
United States AME APMEA Total
Fully integrated manufacturing 1 13 23 37
Other processing sites (including leaf threshing and OTP) — 8 9 17
Sites manufacturing other products (including Snus, Modern Oral and Liquids) 2 4 — 6
Research and development facilities 2 2 3 7
Total 5 27 35 67
Note:
1. As of 31 December 2024.
The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by the Group’s subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed
to be suitable and adequate for the Group’s present needs.
The technology employed in the Group’s factories is sophisticated, especially in the area of cigarette-making and packing where
throughputs can reach between 500 and 1,000 packs per minute. The Group can produce many different pack formats (e.g., the number
of cigarettes per packet) and configurations (e.g., bevel edge, round corner, international) to suit marketing and consumer requirements.
New technology machines are sourced from the leading machinery suppliers to the industry. Close cooperation with these organisations
helps the Group support its marketing strategy by driving its product innovations, which are brought to the market on a regular basis.
The Group utilises quality standards, processes and procedures covering the entire end-to-end value chain to help to ensure quality
products are provided to its customers and adult tobacco consumers according to the Group’s requirements and End Market
regulatory requirements.
In 2024, the Group manufactured cigarettes in 37 cigarette factories in 35 countries. These plants and properties are owned or leased
and operated by the Group’s subsidiaries. The Group’s factory outputs and establishments vary significantly in size and production
capacity. In line with our corporate commitment to fight climate change, our factories have decarbonisation, water usage and waste
optimisation programmes.
Also in 2024, the Group used third-party manufacturers to manufacture the components required, including the devices, related
to New Categories. The Group also used third-party manufacturers to supplement the Group’s own production facilities in the U.S.
and Poland to bottle the liquids used in Vapour products. Further, in 2024, the Group’s manufacturing facilities in Poland and Sweden
(included in the above analysis) also undertook research and development activities, but were not distinct sites from the manufacturing
activities. As such, they were not recorded in the research and development facilities to avoid the risk of double counting.
For more information on property, plant and equipment, see note 13 in the Notes on the Accounts.
Raw Materials
While the Group does not own tobacco farms or directly employ farmers, it sources tobacco leaf directly from circa 91,000 contracted
farmers and third-party suppliers, primarily in emerging markets. We are committed to enhancing the sustainability and viability of our
contracted farmers by focusing on improving quality, distributing more resistant hybrid seeds and implementing tailored mechanisation
to reduce costs of production and increased yield. We hold our third-party suppliers to similar expectations regarding their farmer
contracts. We review our contracts on an annual basis, taking into account Group requirements over the medium term (2-3 years)
to ensure stability of demand and supply on production volumes. Our third-party suppliers also conduct annual reviews. The Group also
purchases a small amount of tobacco leaf from India via our associate ITC Ltd, where the tobacco is bought over an auction floor.
ITC maintains full traceability and monitors farmers to ensure the sustainable provenance of the tobacco procured via the auction floor.
Like any global agricultural commodity, the international price of tobacco fluctuates yearly. This is influenced by various factors including
changes in production costs such as labour and agricultural inputs, local inflationary pressures, economic and political conditions,
as well as climatic conditions that affect the supply, demand and quality of grown tobacco.
The Group believes there is an adequate supply of tobacco leaf in the world markets to satisfy its current and anticipated production
requirements.
We also source a number of other materials required as part of our production requirements, covering areas that include wrapping
materials and filters for our combustibles business and liquids and batteries for our New Categories products. We work closely with
our suppliers to ensure a robust supply chain, with contingency sourcing in place. Contracts and sourcing agreements are reviewed
regularly, to ensure competitive trading terms while recognising that prices may be impacted by external factors that affect our
third-party supply partners.
443
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
U.S. Corporate Governance Practices
Principles Shareholder Approval of Equity Compensation Plans
In the U.S., ADSs of the Company are listed on the New York The NYSE rules for U.S. companies require that shareholders
Stock Exchange (NYSE). The significant differences between must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-
the Company’s corporate governance practices as a UK compensation plans and material revisions to those plans. The
company and those required by NYSE listing standards for U.S. Company complies with UK requirements that are similar to
companies are discussed below. the NYSE rules. The Board, however, does not explicitly take
The Company has applied a set of board governance principles, into consideration the NYSE’s detailed definition of what are
which reflect the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the considered ‘material revisions’.
2018 Code) and its principles-based approach to corporate Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics
governance. NYSE rules require U.S. companies to adopt and The NYSE rules require U.S. companies to adopt and disclose
disclose on their websites corporate governance guidelines. a code of business conduct and ethics for all directors, officers
The Company complies with UK requirements, including a and employees and promptly disclose any waivers of the code
statement in this report of how the Company has applied the for directors or executive officers. The Group Standards of
principles of the Code and that the Company has complied Business Conduct (the SoBC) described on pages 118 and 119
with the provisions of the Code. apply to all employees in the Group, including senior
Independence Management and the Board, and satisfy the NYSE
The Company’s Board governance principles require that all requirements. All Group companies have adopted the SoBC (or
Non-Executive Directors be determined by the Board to be localised versions). The SoBC also set out the Group’s
independent in character and judgement and free from any whistleblowing policy, enabling employees, in confidence and
business or other relationships that could interfere materially anonymously, to raise concerns without fear of reprisal,
with, or appear to affect, their judgement. The Board also has including concerns regarding questionable accounting or
formal procedures for managing conflicts of interest. The auditing matters. The SoBC is available at bat.com/sobc.
Board has determined that, in its judgement, the Chair of the The Company has also adopted a code of ethics for its Chief
Board and all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent. Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller
In doing so, the Board has taken into consideration the and Group Chief Accountant as required by the provisions of
independence requirements outlined in the NYSE’s listing Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules
standards and considers these to be met by the Chair and all of issued by the SEC. No waivers or exceptions to the Code of
its Non-Executive Directors. Ethics were granted in 2024. The Code of Ethics includes
requirements in relation to confidentiality, conflicts of interest
Committees
and corporate opportunities, and obligations for those senior
The Company has a number of Board Committees that are
financial officers to act with honesty and integrity in the
broadly comparable in purpose and composition to those
performance of their duties and to promote full, fair, accurate,
required by NYSE rules for domestic U.S. companies. For
timely and understandable disclosures in all reports and other
instance, the Company has a Nominations (rather than
documents submitted to the SEC, the UK Financial Conduct
nominating/corporate governance) Committee and a
Authority, and any other regulatory agency.
Remuneration (rather than compensation) Committee. The
Company also has an Audit Committee, which NYSE rules The Company considers that these codes and policies address
require for both U.S. companies and foreign private issuers. the matters specified in the NYSE rules for U.S. companies.
These Committees are composed solely of Non-Executive Code for Share Dealing
Directors and, in the case of the Nominations Committee, The British American Tobacco Code for Share Dealing (the BAT
the Chair of the Board whom the Board has determined Code) governs the purchase, sale, and other dispositions of
to be independent in the manner described above. BAT's securities by Directors, employees (including senior
Each Board Committee has its own terms of reference, which management), contractors, and consultants of the Group.
prescribe the composition, main tasks and requirements of The BAT Code is reasonably designed to promote compliance
each of the Committees (see the Board Committee reports on with the UK's Market Abuse Regulation and other applicable
pages 189, 194 and 205). insider trading laws, rules and regulations, and any listing
Under U.S. securities laws and the listing standards of the standards applicable to the Group. The BAT Code is filed as
NYSE, the Company is required to have an audit committee Exhibit 11.2 to this Annual Report and Form 20-F.
that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Independent Director Contact
Exchange Act and Section 303A.06 of the NYSE Listed Interested parties may communicate directly with the
Company Manual. The Company’s Audit Committee complies independent Directors, individually or as a group, by sending
with these requirements. The Company’s Audit Committee written correspondence addressed to the independent
does not have direct responsibility for the appointment, Director(s) to the attention of the Company Secretary at the
reappointment or removal of the independent auditors. Instead, following address: c/o Caroline Ferland, Company Secretary,
it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making British American Tobacco p.l.c., Globe House, 4 Temple Place,
recommendations to the Board on these matters for it to put London WC2R 2PG.
forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
One of the NYSE’s additional requirements for the audit
committee states that at least one member of the audit
committee is to have ‘accounting or related financial
management expertise’. The Board has determined that Darrell
Thomas and Holly Keller Koeppel possess such expertise and
also possess the financial and audit committee experience set
forth in both the UK Code and SEC rules (see the Audit
Committee report on page 194). Darrell Thomas and Holly Keller
Koeppel have also each been designated as an Audit
Committee financial expert as defined in Item 16.A. of Form 20-
F. The Board has also determined that each Audit Committee
member meets the financial literacy requirements applicable
under NYSE listing standards.
444
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
Disclosure controls and procedures the preparation of the Group’s financial statements for external
The Group maintains ‘disclosure controls and procedures’ (as such reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB
term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)), that are designed and UK-adopted international accounting standards; provide
to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditure are made only
the Group files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, in accordance with the authorisation of Management; and provide
processed, summarised and reported within the time periods reasonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely detection
specified in the SEC rules and forms, and that such information of any unauthorised acquisition, use or disposal of assets that
is accumulated and communicated to Management, including could have a material effect on the consolidated
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, financial statements.
to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and Management has assessed the effectiveness of the internal
procedures, our Management, including the Chief Executive and control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13(a)-13(f) and
Chief Financial Officer, recognise that any controls and 15(d)-15(f) under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934) based
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can on the updated Internal Control‑Integrated Framework issued
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met. Due Commission (COSO) (2013). Based on that assessment,
to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of Management has determined that the Group’s internal control
controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and over financial reporting was effective as at 31 December 2024.
instances of fraud, if any, within the Group have been detected. Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed,
The Group’s disclosure controls and procedures have been has inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error
designed to meet, and Management believes that they meet, and the circumvention or overriding of controls and procedures
reasonable assurance standards. and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive and of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
Group disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange changes in conditions or because the degree of compliance
Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
annual report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive and »KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Group disclosure who also audit the Group’s consolidated financial statements,
controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable has audited the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over
assurance level. financial reporting as at 31 December 2024, which is included
Management’s report on internal in this document.»
control over financial reporting Changes in internal control over financial reporting
Management, under the oversight of the Chief Executive and During the period covered by this report, there were no changes
the Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and in the Group’s internal control over financial reporting that have
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
the Group. The Group’s internal control over financial reporting the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
consists of processes which are designed to: provide reasonable
Statements Regarding Competitive Position
Statements referring to the competitive position of BAT and its subsidiaries are based on the Group’s belief and best estimates.
In certain cases, such statements and figures rely on a range of sources, including investment analyst reports, independent market
surveys, and the Group’s own internal assessments of market share.
445
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Directors’ Report Information
This Other Information section of the Company's Annual Report and Form 20-F, which includes Additional Disclosures and Shareholder
Information, forms part of, and includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be included in, the Directors’ Report.
Strategic Report Disclosures
Section 414C(11) of the Companies Act 2006 allows the Board to include in the Strategic Report information that it considers to be of
strategic importance that would otherwise need to be disclosed in the Directors’ Report. The Board has chosen to take advantage of
this provision and accordingly, the information set out below, which would otherwise be required to be contained in the Directors’
Report, has been included in the Strategic Report.
Information required in the Directors’ Report Section in the Strategic Report
Information on dividends Financial Performance Summary
Certain risk information about the use of financial instruments Treasury and Cash Flow
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group Strategic Pillar Overview
Our Markets and Megatrends
An indication of the activities of the Group in the field of research and development Tobacco Harm Reduction
Beyond Nicotine
Omni™
A statement describing the Group’s policy regarding the hiring, continuing employment Employee Communities
and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons
Details of employee engagement: information, consultation, regard to employee interests, Engaging with our Stakeholders
share scheme participation and the achievement of a common awareness of the financial Employee Communities
and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group
Details of business relationships: Directors’ regard to business relationships with Engaging with Our Stakeholders
customers, suppliers and other external stakeholders Board Engagement with Stakeholders
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption TCFD Reporting
Shareholder Information Disclosures
Information required in the Directors’ Report Section in Other Information
Change of control provisions Material contracts
Information on dividends Dividends
Share capital – structure and voting rights; restrictions on transfers of shares Articles of Association
Directors – appointment and retirement Articles of Association
Amendment of Articles of Association Articles of Association
Branch outside of the UK - Representative Office in South Africa Inside page of the back cover
Major shareholders Share Capital and Security Ownership
Directors – share issuance and buy-back powers Share Capital and Security Ownership
Purchases of Shares
UK Listing Rules (UKLRs) Disclosures
For the purpose of UKLR 6.6.4R the applicable information required to be disclosed by UKLR 6.6.1R Section in Other Information
Section (11) – shareholder waivers of dividends Group Employee Trust
Section (12) – shareholder waivers of future dividends Group Employee Trust
Directors: Interests and Indemnities
Interests –details of Directors’ remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the Company’s shares (including share
options and deferred shares) as at 31 December 2024 are given in the Remuneration Report; and
–no Director had any material interest in a contract of significance (other than a service contract) with the Company
or any subsidiary company during the year.
Insurance –appropriate cover provided in the event of legal action against the Company’s Directors.
Indemnities –provision of indemnities to Directors in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and to the maximum
extent permitted by law; and
–as at the date of this report, such indemnities are in force covering any costs, charges, expenses or liabilities that they
may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company or to any entity which is an associated company
(as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006), or as a result of duties performed by them on behalf of the
Company or any such associated company.
Directors’ Report Approval and Signature
The Directors’ Report comprises the information on pages 164 to 204 and pages 389 to 463. The Directors’ Report was approved by the
Board of Directors on 12 February 2025 and signed on its behalf by Caroline Ferland, Company Secretary.
446
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Cautionary Statement
This document contains certain forward-looking statements, Among the key factors that could cause actual results to differ
including “forward-looking” statements made within the meaning materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements
of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These are uncertainties related to the following: the impact of
statements are often, but not always, made through the use of competition from illicit trade; the impact of adverse domestic
words or phrases such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “could,” “may,” or international legislation and regulation; the inability to develop,
“would,” “should,” “intend,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “will,” commercialise and deliver the Group’s New Categories strategy;
“expect,” “estimate,” “project,” “positioned,” “strategy,” “outlook”, the impact of Supply chain disruptions; adverse litigation and
“target” and similar expressions. These include statements dispute outcomes and the effect of such outcomes on the Group’s
regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations financial condition; the impact of significant increases or structural
concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, changes in tobacco, nicotine and New Categories related taxes;
financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and translational and transactional foreign exchange rate exposure;
the economic and business circumstances occurring from time changes or differences in domestic or international economic
to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates. or political conditions; the ability to maintain credit ratings and to
In particular, these forward-looking statements include, among fund the business under the current capital structure; the impact
other statements, statements regarding the Group’s future of serious injury, illness or death in the workplace; adverse
financial performance, planned product launches and future decisions by domestic or international regulatory bodies; direct
regulatory developments, as well as: (i) certain statements in the and indirect adverse impacts associated with Climate Change;
Overview section (pages 2 to 23), including the Chair’s Introduction direct and indirect adverse impacts associated with the move
and Chief Executive’s Review; (ii) certain statements in the Strategy towards a Circular Economy; and Cyber Security risks caused by
section (pages 11-25), including the Our Strategic Navigator section, the heightened cyber-threat landscape and increased digital
Our Business Model section, Engaging with Our Stakeholders interactions with consumers, and changes to regulation. Further
section, Chief Financial Officer's Overview and Our Markets and details on the principal risks that may affect the Group can be
Megatrends section; (iii) certain statements in the Quality Growth found in the Group Principal Risks section of the Strategic Report
section (pages 26 to 37), including the Strategic Pillar overview; (iv) on pages 155 to 162 of this document. A summary of all the risk
certain statements in the Dynamic Business section (pages 38 to factors (including the principal risks) which are monitored by the
59), including certain statements in the Strategic Pillar Overview Board through the Group’s risk register is set out in the Additional
section, the Financial Performance Summary, the Treasury and Disclosures section under the Group Risk Factors heading on
Cash Flow section and the going concern discussions in the Other pages 414 to 435.
Financial Information section; (v) certain statements in the Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons
Sustainable Future section (pages 60 to 163), including the Our needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
Sustainability Strategy section, Double Materiality Assessment The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and
section, Tobacco Harm Reduction section, Climate section, Nature information available at the date of preparation of this document
section, Circularity section, Communities section, TCFD reporting and the Group undertakes no obligation to update or revise these
and TNFD reporting section; (vi) certain statements in the Notes on forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
Accounts (pages 269 to 370), including the Group's ability to information, future events or otherwise. Readers are cautioned
navigate regulatory change on page 297 and estimates and not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
assumptions in connection with the Proposed Plans under the No statement in this document is intended to be a profit forecast
CCAA on page 328; and (vii) certain statements in the Other and no statement in this document should be interpreted to mean
Information section (pages 389 to 467), including the Additional that earnings per share of BAT for the current or future financial
Disclosures and Shareholder Information sections. years would necessarily match or exceed the historical published
All such forward-looking statements involve estimates and earnings per share of BAT.
assumptions that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other Although financial materiality has been considered in the
factors. It is believed that the expectations reflected in this development of our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA), our
document are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide DMA and any conclusions in this document as to the materiality or
range of variables that could cause actual results to differ significance of sustainability matters do not imply that all topics
materially from those currently anticipated. discussed therein are financially material to our business taken as
a whole, and such topics may not significantly alter the total mix of
information available about our securities.
447
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Shareholder Information
Main Market – London Stock Exchange (LSE)
The primary market for BAT’s ordinary shares is the LSE (Share Code: BATS; ISIN: GB0002875804). BAT’s ordinary shares have been
listed on the LSE main market since 8 September 1998 and are a constituent element of the FTSE 100 Index.
Secondary Listing – Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE Limited), South Africa
BAT’s ordinary shares have a secondary listing and are traded in South African rand on the Main Board of the JSE in South Africa
(Abbreviated name: BATS; Trading code: BTI). BAT’s ordinary shares have been listed on the JSE since 28 October 2008 and are
a constituent element of the JSE Top 40 Index.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) – New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
BAT ordinary shares trade in the form of BAT ADSs in the U.S. under the symbol BTI (CUSIP Number: 110448107). The BAT ADSs have
been listed on the NYSE since 25 July 2017 as a Sponsored Level III ADS programme for which Citibank, N.A. is the depositary (the
‘Depositary’) and transfer agent. Each ADS represents one ordinary share. ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs).
Share Prices
The high and low prices at which the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs are recorded as having traded during the year on each
of the LSE, JSE and NYSE are as follows:
High Low
LSE £30.10 £22.67
JSE R695.60 R536.25
NYSE US$39.36 US$28.38
448
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Dividends
Policy
The Group’s policy is to pay dividends of 65% of long-term sustainable earnings, calculated with reference to adjusted diluted earnings
per share, as defined on page 405, and reconciled from earnings per share in note 11 in the Notes on the Accounts. Please see page 54
of this Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 for further discussion on the Group’s dividend.
Currencies and Exchange Rates
Details of foreign exchange rates are set out in the Financial Review section of the Strategic Report on page 58 of this Annual Report
and Form 20-F 2024. There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on remittance of dividends on the ordinary
shares other than restrictions applicable to certain countries and persons subject to UK economic sanctions.
American Depositary Shares – Dividends
The following table shows the dividends paid by British American Tobacco p.l.c. in the years ended 31 December 2024 to
31 December 2022 inclusive.
Dividend Per BAT Dividend Per BAT ADS
Announcement Ordinary Share ADS ratio 1:1
Year Payment Dividend Period GBP US$1
2024 May Quarterly Interim 2024 0.5888 0.734851
August Quarterly Interim 2024 0.5888 0.753752
November Quarterly Interim 2024 0.5888 0.762702
February 2025 Quarterly Interim 2024 0.5888 0.730435
Total 2.3552 2.981740
2023 May Quarterly Interim 2023 0.5772 0.723866
August Quarterly Interim 2023 0.5772 0.734400
November Quarterly Interim 2023 0.5772 0.713880
February 2024 Quarterly Interim 2023 0.5772 0.7318030
Total 2.3088 2.903949
2022 May Quarterly Interim 2022 0.5445 0.680434
August Quarterly Interim 2022 0.5445 0.655523
November Quarterly Interim 2022 0.5445 0.635540
February 2023 Quarterly Interim 2022 0.5445 0.669190
Total 2.1780 2.640687
Note:
1. H olders of BAT ADSs: dividends are receivable in US$ based on the £/US$ exchange rate on the applicable ADS payment date, being three business days after the payment date for the
BAT ordinary shares.
449
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Additional Disclosures
Dividends
Continued
Quarterly Dividends for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
The Group pays quarterly dividends. The Board has declared an interim dividend of 240.24p per ordinary share of 25p which is payable
in four equal quarterly instalments of 60.06p per ordinary share in May 2025, August 2025, November 2025 and February 2026. This
represents an increase of 2.0% on 2023 (2023: 235.52p per share), and a payout ratio, on 2024 adjusted diluted earnings per share,
of 66.3%.
The quarterly dividends will be paid to shareholders registered on either the UK main register or the South Africa branch register
and to ADS holders, each on the applicable record dates set out under the heading ‘Key dates’ below.
Holders of American Depositary Shares (ADSs)
For holders of ADSs listed on the NYSE, the record dates and payment dates are set out below. The equivalent quarterly dividends
receivable by holders of ADSs in US$ will be calculated based on the exchange rate on the applicable payment date.
South Africa branch register
In accordance with the JSE Listing Requirements, the finalisation information relating to shareholders registered on the South Africa
branch register (comprising the amount of the dividend in South African rand, the exchange rate and the associated conversion date)
will be published on the dates stated below, together with South Africa dividends tax information.
The quarterly dividends are regarded as ‘foreign dividends’ for the purposes of the South Africa Dividends Tax. For the purposes
of South Africa Dividends Tax reporting, the source of income for the payment of the quarterly dividends is the United Kingdom.
Key dates
In compliance with the requirements of the LSE, the NYSE and Strate, the electronic settlement and custody system used by the JSE, the following are the
salient dates for the quarterly dividend payments. All dates are 2025 unless otherwise stated.
Event Payment No. 1 Payment No. 2 Payment No. 3 Payment No. 4
Preliminary announcement (includes declaration
data required for LSE and JSE purposes) 13 February
Publication of finalisation information (JSE) 17 March 17 June 22 September 15 December
No removal requests permitted (in either
direction) between the UK main register and the 17 March– 17 June– 22 September– 15 December– 30
South Africa branch register 28 March 27 June 3 October December
Last Day to Trade (LDT) cum-dividend (JSE) 25 March 24 June 30 September 23 December
Shares commence trading ex-dividend (JSE) 26 March 25 June 1 October 24 December
No transfers permitted between the UK main 26 March– 25 June– 1 October– 24 December– 30
register and the South Africa branch register 28 March 27 June 3 October December
No shares may be dematerialised or 26 March– 25 June– 1 October– 24 December– 30
rematerialised on the South Africa branch register 28 March 27 June 3 October December
Shares commence trading ex-dividend (LSE) 27 March 26 June 2 October 29 December
Shares commence trading ex-dividend (NYSE) 28 March 27 June 3 October 30 December
Record date (JSE, LSE and NYSE) 28 March 27 June 3 October 30 December
Last date for receipt of Dividend Reinvestment
Plan (DRIP) elections (LSE) 11 April 11 July 17 October 14 January 2026
Payment date (LSE and JSE) 7 May 1 August 7 November 4 February 2026
ADS payment date (NYSE) 12 May 6 August 13 November 9 February 2026
450
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Taxation Information
The following discussion summarises material U.S. federal income For purposes of this discussion, the term U.S. holder means a
tax consequences and UK taxation consequences to U.S. holders beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs (as the case may be)
of owning and disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs, this that:
information is accurate as at 4 February 2025. This discussion –is for U.S. federal income tax purposes: (i) an individual citizen or
does not address any tax consequences arising under the laws of resident of the United States; (ii) a corporation, including any
any state, local or foreign jurisdiction or under any U.S. federal laws entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax
other than those pertaining to income tax. This discussion is based purposes, created or organised in or under the laws of the United
upon the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the ‘U.S. Tax Code’), States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (iii) a trust if
the Treasury regulations promulgated under the U.S. Tax Code and a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the
court and administrative rulings and decisions, all as in effect on trust’s administration and one or more U.S. persons are
the date hereof. These laws may change, possibly retroactively, authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust or it
and any change could affect the accuracy of the statements has a valid election in effect under applicable Treasury
and conclusions set forth in this discussion. regulations to be treated as a U.S. person; or (iv) an estate that is
This discussion addresses only those U.S. holders of ordinary subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income regardless of its
shares or ADSs who hold such equity interests as capital assets source; and
within the meaning of Section 1221 of the U.S. Tax Code. Further, –is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes.
this discussion does not address all aspects of U.S. federal income
The U.S. federal income tax consequences to a partner in an entity
taxation that may be relevant to U.S. holders in light of their
or arrangement treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income
particular circumstances or that may be applicable to them if they
tax purposes that holds ordinary shares or ADSs generally will
are subject to special treatment under the U.S. federal income tax
depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the
laws, including, without limitation:
partnership. Partners in a partnership holding any such equity
–a bank or other financial institution; interest should consult their own tax advisers.
–a tax-exempt organisation;
Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences
–an S corporation or other pass-through entity and an Relating to the Ownership and Disposition of Ordinary
investor therein; Shares or ADSs
–an insurance company; The following is a discussion of the material U.S. federal income tax
–a mutual fund; consequences of the ownership and disposition by U.S. holders of
ordinary shares or ADSs. This discussion assumes that BAT is not,
–a regulated investment company or real estate investment trust;
and will not become, a passive foreign investment company for
–a dealer or broker in stocks and securities, or currencies; U.S. federal income tax purposes, as described below.
–a trader in securities that elects mark-to-market treatment; ADSs
–a U.S. holder subject to the alternative minimum tax provisions A U.S. holder of ADSs, for U.S. federal income tax purposes,
of the U.S. Tax Code; generally will be treated as the owner of the underlying ordinary
–a U.S. holder that received ordinary shares or ADSs through the
shares that are represented by such ADSs. Accordingly, deposits
or withdrawals of ordinary shares for or from ADSs will not be
exercise of an employee stock option, pursuant to a tax qualified
retirement plan or otherwise as compensation;
subject to U.S. federal income tax.
Taxation of Dividends
–a U.S. holder that is a tax-qualified retirement plan
The gross amount of distributions on the ordinary shares or ADSs
or a participant or a beneficiary under such a plan;
will be taxable as dividends to the extent paid out of BAT’s current
–a person that is not a U.S. holder (as defined below);
or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined under U.S.
–a person that has a functional currency other than the US dollar; federal income tax principles. Such income will be includable in a
–a person required to recognise any item of gross income U.S. holder’s gross income as ordinary income on the day actually
as a result of such income being recognised on an applicable or constructively received by the U.S. holder. Such dividends will be
financial statement; treated as foreign source income and will not be eligible for the
dividends received deduction allowed to corporations under the
–a U.S. holder of ordinary shares or ADSs that holds such equity
U.S. Tax Code.
interest as part of a hedge, straddle, constructive sale,
conversion or other integrated transaction;
–a U.S. holder that owns (directly, indirectly or constructively) 10%
or more of ordinary shares or ADSs by vote or by value; or
–a U.S. expatriate.
The determination of the actual tax consequences to a U.S. holder
will depend on the U.S. holder’s specific situation. U.S. holders of
ordinary shares or ADSs should consult their own tax advisers as
to the tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary
shares or ADSs, in each case, including the applicability and effect
of the alternative minimum tax and any state, local, foreign or
other tax laws and of changes in those laws.
451
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Taxation Information
Continued
With respect to non-corporate U.S. investors, certain dividends Passive foreign investment company
received from a qualified foreign corporation may be subject to A passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) is any foreign
reduced rates of taxation. A qualified foreign corporation includes corporation if, after the application of certain ‘look-through’ rules:
a foreign corporation that is eligible for the benefits of a (1) at least 75% of its gross income is ‘passive income’ as that term
comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States that the is defined in the relevant provisions of the U.S. Tax Code;
Treasury determines to be satisfactory for these purposes and or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets produce
that includes an exchange of information provision. The Treasury ‘passive income’ or are held for the production of ‘passive income.’
has determined that the treaty between the United States and the The determination as to PFIC status is made annually.
United Kingdom meets these requirements, and BAT believes that
BAT does not believe that it is, for U.S. federal income tax
it is eligible for the benefits of the treaty. However, non-corporate
purposes, a PFIC, and BAT expects to operate in such a manner
holders that do not meet a minimum holding period requirement
so as not to become a PFIC. If, however, BAT is or becomes a PFIC,
during which they are not protected from the risk of loss or that
U.S. holders could be subject to additional U.S. federal income
elect to treat the dividend income as ‘investment income’ pursuant
taxes on gain recognised with respect to the ordinary shares or
to Section 163(d)(4) of the U.S. Tax Code will not be eligible for the
ADSs and on certain distributions, plus an interest charge on
reduced rates of taxation. In addition, the rate reduction will not
certain taxes treated as having been deferred under the PFIC rules.
apply to dividends if the recipient of a dividend is obligated to make
Non-corporate U.S. holders will not be eligible for reduced rates of
related payments with respect to positions in substantially similar
taxation on any dividends received from BAT if it is a PFIC in the
or related property. This disallowance applies even if the minimum
taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding
holding period has been met. U.S. holders should consult their own
taxable year. BAT’s U.S. counsel expresses no opinion with respect
tax advisers regarding the application of these rules to their
to BAT’s PFIC status.
particular circumstances.
Taxation of capital gains
The amount of any dividend paid by BAT in sterling (including any
Upon a sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of ordinary
such amount in respect of ADSs that is converted into US dollars
shares or ADSs, a U.S. holder will generally recognise capital gain
by the depositary bank) will equal the US dollar value of the sterling
or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to
actually or constructively received, calculated by reference to the
the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised
exchange rate in effect on the date the dividend is so received by
on the disposition and the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the
the U.S. holder, regardless of whether the sterling are converted
ordinary shares or ADSs as determined in US dollars. Such gain or
into US dollars. If the sterling received as a dividend are converted
loss generally will be U.S. source gain or loss, and will be long-term
into US dollars on the date received, the U.S. holder generally will
capital gain or loss if the U.S. holder has held the ordinary shares or
not be required to recognise foreign currency exchange gain or
ADSs for more than one year. Certain non-corporate U.S. holders
loss in respect of the dividend income. If the sterling received as a
may be eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax in
dividend are not converted into US dollars on the date of receipt,
respect of net long-term capital gains. The deductibility of capital
the U.S. holder will have a basis in sterling equal to their US dollar
losses is subject to limitations.
value on the date of receipt. Any gain or loss realised on a subsequent
conversion or other disposition of sterling will be treated as U.S. The amount realised on a sale, exchange or other taxable
source ordinary income or loss. U.S. holders of ADSs should disposition of ordinary shares for an amount in foreign currency
consult their own tax advisers regarding the application of these will be the US dollar value of that amount on the date of sale or
rules to the amount of any dividend paid by BAT in sterling that is disposition. On the settlement date, the U.S. holder will recognise
converted into US dollars by the depositary bank. U.S. source foreign currency exchange gain or loss (taxable as
ordinary income or loss) equal to the difference (if any) between
To the extent that the amount of any distribution exceeds BAT’s
the US dollar value of the amount received based on the exchange
current and accumulated earnings and profits for a taxable year,
rates in effect on the date of sale, exchange or other disposition
as determined under U.S. federal income tax principles, the
and the settlement date. However, in the case of ordinary shares
distribution will first be treated as a tax-free return of capital,
traded on an established securities market that are sold by a cash-
causing a reduction in the U.S. holder’s adjusted basis of the
basis U.S. holder (or an accrual-basis U.S. holder that so elects),
ordinary shares or ADSs, and to the extent the amount of the
the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect
distribution exceeds the U.S. holder’s tax basis, the excess will
on the settlement date for the sale, and no foreign currency
be taxed as capital gain recognised on a sale or exchange, as
exchange gain or loss will be recognised at that time.
described below. BAT does not expect to determine earnings
and profits in accordance with U.S. federal income tax principles. A U.S. holder’s tax basis in ordinary shares or ADSs will generally
Therefore, notwithstanding the foregoing, U.S. holders should equal the US dollar cost of the ordinary shares or ADSs. The
expect that distributions generally will be reported as dividend US dollar cost of ordinary shares purchased with foreign currency
income for U.S. information reporting purposes. will generally be the US dollar value of the purchase price on the
date of purchase, or the settlement date for the purchase in the
Distributions by BAT of additional ordinary shares (which may be
case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market
distributed by the depositary bank to a holder of ADSs in the form
that are purchased by a cash-basis U.S. holder (or an accrual-basis
of ADSs) to a U.S. holder that is made as part of a pro rata
U.S. holder that so elects).
distribution to all holders of ordinary shares and ADSs in respect
of their ordinary shares or ADSs, and for which there is no option
to receive other property (not including ADSs), generally will not be
subject to U.S. federal income tax. The basis of any new ordinary
shares (or ADSs representing new ordinary shares) so received will
be determined by allocating the U.S. holder’s basis in the previously
held ordinary shares or ADSs between the previously held ordinary
shares or ADSs and the new ordinary shares or ADSs, based on
their relative fair market values on the date of distribution.
452
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Information with respect to foreign financial assets Information reporting and backup withholding
Individuals and certain entities that own ‘specified foreign financial Information reporting and backup withholding may apply to
assets’ with an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 are dividend payments and proceeds from the sale, exchange or other
generally required to file information reports with respect to such taxable disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs. Backup withholding
assets with their U.S. federal income tax returns. Depending on the will not apply, however, to a U.S. holder that: (1) furnishes a correct
individual’s circumstances, higher threshold amounts may apply. taxpayer identification number (TIN), certifies that such holder is
Specified foreign financial assets include any financial accounts not subject to backup withholding on Internal Revenue Service
maintained by foreign financial institutions, as well as any of the Form W-9 (or appropriate successor form) and otherwise
following, but only if they are not held in accounts maintained by complies with all applicable requirements of the backup
financial institutions: (1) stocks and securities issued by non-U.S. withholding rules; or (2) provides proof that such holder is
persons; (2) financial instruments and contracts held for otherwise exempt from backup withholding. Backup withholding is
investment that have non-U.S. issuers or counterparties; and not an additional tax, and any amounts withheld under the backup
(3) interests in non‑U.S. entities. If a U.S. holder is subject to this withholding rules may be refunded or credited against a holder’s
information reporting regime, the failure to file information reports U.S. federal income tax liability, if any, provided that such holder
may subject the U.S. holder to penalties. U.S. holders are urged to furnishes the required information to the Internal Revenue Service
consult their own tax advisers regarding their obligations to file in a timely manner. The Internal Revenue Service may impose a
information reports with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs. penalty upon any taxpayer that fails to provide the correct TIN.
Medicare net investment tax This summary of material U.S. federal income tax
Certain persons who are individuals (other than non-resident consequences is not tax advice. The determination of the
aliens), estates or trusts are required to pay an additional 3.8% tax actual tax consequences for a U.S. holder will depend on the
on the lesser of (1) their ‘net investment income’ (in the case of U.S. holder’s specific situation. U.S. holders of ordinary shares
individuals) or ‘undistributed net investment income’ (in the case of or ADSs, in each case, should consult their own tax advisers as
estates and trusts) (which includes dividend income in respect of, to the tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary
and gain recognised on the disposition of, ordinary shares or ADSs) shares or ADSs, including the applicability and effect of the
for the relevant taxable year; and (2) the excess of their modified alternative minimum tax and any state, local, foreign or other
adjusted gross income (in the case of individuals) or adjusted tax laws and of changes in those laws.
gross income (in the case of estates and trusts) for the taxable
year over specified dollar amounts. U.S. holders are urged to
consult their tax advisers regarding the applicability of this
provision to their ownership of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Credits or deductions for UK taxes
As indicated under ‘Material UK tax consequences’ below,
dividends in respect of, and gains on the disposition of, ordinary
shares or ADSs may be subject to UK taxation in certain
circumstances. A U.S. holder may be eligible to claim a credit
or deduction in respect of UK taxes attributable to such income
or gain for purposes of computing the U.S. holder’s U.S. federal
income tax liability, subject to certain limitations. The U.S. foreign
tax credit rules are complex, and U.S. holders should consult their
own tax advisers regarding the availability of U.S. foreign tax
credits and the application of the U.S. foreign tax credit rules
to their particular situation.
453
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Taxation Information
Continued
Material UK Tax Consequences Tax on dividends
The following paragraphs summarise material aspects of the UK BAT is not required to withhold UK tax at source from dividends
tax treatment of U.S. holders of ordinary shares or ADSs and do paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
not purport to be either a complete analysis of all tax U.S. holders will not generally be subject to UK tax on dividends
considerations relating to holding ordinary shares or ADSs or an received from BAT provided that they do not carry on a trade,
analysis of the tax position of BAT. They are based on current UK profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch,
legislation and what is understood to be current HMRC practice, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which
both of which are subject to change, possibly with the ordinary shares or ADSs are held.
retrospective effect.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT)
The comments are intended as a general guide and (otherwise Based on current published HMRC practice and recent case law,
than where expressly stated to the contrary) apply only to U.S. transfers of ADSs should not be subject to SDRT or stamp duty.
holders of ordinary shares or ADSs (other than under a personal The transfer of an underlying ordinary share to the ADS holder
equity plan or individual savings account) and who are the absolute in exchange for the cancellation of an ADS should also not give
beneficial owners of such shares. These comments do not deal rise to a stamp duty or SDRT charge.
with certain types of shareholders such as charities, dealers in
Transfers of ordinary shares outside of the depositary bank,
securities, persons holding or acquiring shares in the course of a
including the repurchase of ordinary shares by BAT, will generally
trade, persons who have or could be treated for tax purposes as
be subject to stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the
having acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs by reason of their
amount or value of the consideration given, except as described
employment, collective investment schemes, persons subject to
above in connection with the cancellation of an ADS. If ordinary
UK tax on the remittance basis and insurance companies. You are
shares are redeposited into a clearance service or depositary
encouraged to consult an appropriate independent professional
system, the redeposit will attract stamp duty or SDRT at the
tax adviser with respect to your tax position.
higher rate of 1.5%.
Tax on chargeable gains as a result of
The purchaser or the transferee of the ordinary shares or ADSs
disposals of ordinary shares or ADSs
will generally be responsible for paying any stamp duty or SDRT
Subject to the below, U.S. holders will not generally be subject
payable. Where stamp duty or SDRT is payable, it is payable
to UK tax on chargeable gains on a disposal of ordinary shares
regardless of the residence position of the purchaser.
or ADSs provided that they do not carry on a trade, profession
or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch, agency or Inheritance tax
permanent establishment in connection with which the ordinary A gift or settlement of ordinary shares or ADSs by, or on the
shares or ADSs are held. death of, an individual shareholder may give rise to a liability to
UK inheritance tax even if the shareholder is not a resident of,
A U.S. holder who is an individual, who has ceased to be resident
or domiciled in, the United Kingdom.
for tax purposes in the United Kingdom for a period of less than
five years and who disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs during that A charge to inheritance tax may arise in certain circumstances
period may be liable for UK tax on capital gains (in the absence of where ordinary shares or ADSs are held by close companies
any available exemptions or reliefs). If applicable, the tax charge will and trustees of settlements.
arise in the tax year that the individual returns to the However, pursuant to the Estate and Gift Tax Treaty 1980
United Kingdom. (the “Treaty”) entered into between the United Kingdom and the
United States, a gift or settlement of ordinary shares or ADSs
by shareholders who are domiciled in the United States for the
purposes of the Treaty may be exempt from any liability to UK
inheritance tax.
454
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Share Capital and Security Ownership
Share Capital American Depositary Shares (ADSs)
At 31 December 2024, there was a total of 354,965,781 ADSs
Ordinary shares of 25p each 31 December 2024
outstanding held by 7,798 registered holders. The ADS register is set out
Issued ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) 2,209,559,098
according to the size of shareholding as at 31 December 2024 as follows:
Treasury shares 133,266,206
Number of holders % of total ADSs
Total allotted and fully paid ordinary shares 2,342,825,304
1-1,999 7,644 0.39
Aggregated nominal value £m 585.71
2,000-9,999 137 0.13
Note: 10,000-199,999 15 0.08
1. Includes treasury shares and shares owned by employee share trusts. 200,000-499,999 1 0.06
Authority to allot shares 500,000 and over1 1 99.34
At the 2024 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot Total 7,798 100.00
relevant securities up to an amount representing one-third of the
Note:
Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares)
1. One registered holder of ADSs represents 653,335 underlying shareholders.
as at 5 March 2024, for the period until the next AGM in 2025. The
renewal of this authority is put forward to shareholders annually at Security Ownership of Ordinary Shares
the AGM. There are no present plans to allot new shares, other in
As at 5 February 2025 there were 30,060 record holders of ordinary
relation to employee share plans. However, the Directors consider
shares listed on the LSE (including Citibank as the depositary bank for
it appropriate to maintain the flexibility that this authority provides.
the ADSs) and 2,124,271,857 of such ordinary shares outstanding. As at
Analyses of Shareholders that date, to BAT’s knowledge, 299 record holders, representing 0% of
Ordinary Shares the ordinary shares listed on the LSE, had a registered address in the
At 31 December 2024, there was a total of 2,342,825,304 ordinary U.S.. As at 5 February 2025, there were 1,133 record holders of ordinary
shares in issue held by 90,635 shareholders. The breakdown of shares listed on the JSE (including PLC Nominees (Proprietary) Limited
these shareholdings is as follows: as the nominee for the dematerialised ordinary shares listed on the
JSE) and 215,634,586 of such ordinary shares outstanding. As at
(a) by listing as at 31 December 2024:
such date, to BAT’s knowledge, 61 record holders, representing 0%
Total number Number of % of issued of the ordinary shares listed on the JSE had a registered address in
Register of shares holders share capital the U.S.. As at 5 February 2025, based on information received from
UK 2,119,448,657 30,139 90.47 Citibank, there were 7,764 record holders of ADSs and 354,963,076
South Africa 223,376,647 60,496 9.53 ADSs outstanding. As at that date, based on information received
Total 2,342,825,304 90,635 100.00 from Citibank, 7,704 record holders, representing 99.99% of ADSs
representing ordinary shares, had a registered address in the U.S..
(b) by size of shareholding as at 31 December 2024: Security Ownership – Major Shareholders
UK Register
All shares held by the significant shareholders represent the Company's
% of UK ordinary shares. These significant shareholders have no special voting
Number of ordinary rights compared with other holders of the Company's ordinary shares.
holders share capital
1-1,999 26,024 0.50 At 31 December 2024, the following substantial interests (3% or more) in the
Company’s ordinary share capital (voting securities) had been notified to the
2,000-9,999 2,948 0.53 Company in accordance with Section 5.1.2 of the Disclosure Guidance and
10,000-199,999 823 1.94 Transparency Rules (DTRs). Additional changes to substantial interests
notified to the Company post-31 December 2024 are set out in Notes 3 and 5
200,000-499,999 121 1.89 below.
500,000 and over 222 88.85
Treasury shares (UK) 1 6.29 Number of % of issued
Total 30,139 100 Name or s d h in a a re ry s ca s p h i a ta re l1
South Africa Register The Capital Group Companies, Inc.2, 3 310,426,805 14.05
% of SA Spring Mountain Investments Ltd.4 231,975,495 10.50
Number of ordinary
BlackRock, Inc 132,891,526 6.01
holders share capital
1-1,999 55,842 6.25 Notes:
2,000-9,999 3,196 5.86 1. The percentage of issued share capital as at 31 December 2024, excluding treasury shares.
10,000-199,999 1,337 22.54 2. Includes 48,571,281 ordinary shares represented by ADRs.
3. On 15 January 2025, the Capital Group Companies, Inc. notified the Company that,
200,000-499,999 75 10.78 on 14 January 2025, its interest in the Company’s ordinary share capital had increased to
a total of 332,948,937 voting rights, representing 15.08% of the Company’s issued share
500,000 and over 46 54.56
capital (excluding treasury shares) as at that date; and on 7 February 2025 that, on 6
Total 60,496 100 February 2025, its interest in the Company’s share capital had increased to a total of
355,299,930 voting rights, representing 16.10% of the Company’s issued share capital
(excluding treasury shares) at that date.
Combined registers
4. Includes 5,902,088 ordinary shares represented by ADRs.
Number of % of issued ordinary 5. On 31 January 2025, Standard Bank Group Limited notified the Company that,
holders share capital on 29 January 2025, its interest in the Company’s ordinary share capital had increased to
a total of 74,103,515 voting rights, representing 3.35% of the Company’s issued share
1-1,999 81,866 1.05 capital (excluding treasury shares) as at that date.
2,000-9,999 6,144 1.04
10,000-199,999 2,160 3.90
200,000-499,999 196 2.74
500,000 and over 268 85.59
Treasury shares (UK) 1 5.69
Total 90,635 100
455
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Share Capital and Security Ownership
Continued
Additional Significant Shareholding Disclosure
The Company is aware of the following interests from filings by shareholders made under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as at
the date of this report:
Percentage of ordinary
Holder Schedule 13G Filing Date1 Date of holding Ordinary shares held share capital held2
Portfolio Services Ltd3 26 January 2024 31 December 2023 234,328,476 10.5 %
8 December 2023 7 December 2023 225,064,318 10.1 %
10 February 2023 31 December 2022 198,285,158 8.9 %
10 February 2022 31 December 2021 187,023,731 8.2 %
BlackRock, Inc. 22 October 2024 30 September 2024 147,648,482 6.7 %
6 February 2024 31 December 2023 173,760,660 7.8 %
31 January 2023 31 December 2022 172,502,866 7.7 %
3 February 2022 31 December 2021 184,921,039 8.1 %
Capital International Investors, a 7 February 2024 29 December 2023 120,859,227 5.4 %
division of Capital Research and 13 February 2023 30 December 2022 115,107,720 5.1 %
Management Company4
11 February 2022 31 December 2021 110,680,543 4.8 %
Capital Research Global Investors, a 7 February 2024 29 December 2023 134,227,673 6.0 %
division of Capital Research and
Management Company4 13 February 2023 30 December 2022 126,794,516 5.7 %
Notes:
1. In addition to the Schedule 13G filings made with the SEC, in accordance with the DTRs, shareholders must notify the Company if their shareholding reaches, exceeds or falls below 3%
of total voting rights and each 1% threshold thereafter. The notifications received by the Company during the past three years to the best of the Company’s knowledge are set out in the
notes below.
Standard Bank Group Limited notified the Company on 31 January 2025 that on 29 January 2025 it had a direct interest in 74,103,515 ordinary shares, representing 3.35% of the total
voting rights at that date.
2. The percentage of issued share capital held is with reference to the number of ordinary shares held by the holder as at the date of the event triggering the relevant Schedule 13G filing.
The percentage of the Company's issue share capital shown excludes treasury shares.
3. Kenneth B. Dart is beneficial owner of all outstanding shares of Portfolio Services Ltd and Spring Mountain Investments Ltd. Spring Mountain Investments Ltd notified the Company on:
– 18 May 2023 that on 16 May 2023 it had a direct interest in 201,404,985 ordinary shares, representing 9.00% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 8 December 2023 that on 7 December 2023 it had a direct interest in 224,329,318 ordinary shares representing 10.03% of the total voting rights at that date; and
– 18 December 2023 that on 15 December 2023 it had a direct interest in 231,975,495 ordinary shares representing 10.37% of the total voting rights at that date.
4. The notifications regarding the holdings by The Capital Group Companies, Inc., listed below, indicate that Capital Research and Management Company is part of a chain of controlled
undertakings with The Capital Group Companies, Inc.. The Capital Group Companies, Inc. notified the Company on:
– 25 January 2022 that on 24 January 2022 it had: an indirect interest in ordinary shares of 249,908,259; and financial instruments pursuant to DTR 5.3.1 R (1)(b) which refer to 3,972,871
voting rights, representing 10.89% and 0.17%, respectively, of the total voting rights at that date;
– 26 January 2022 that on 25 January 2022 it had: an indirect interest in ordinary shares of 253,762,060; and financial instruments pursuant to DTR 5.3.1 R (1)(b) which refer to 4,365,071
voting rights, representing 11.06% and 0.19%, respectively, of the total voting rights at that date;
– 24 February 2022 that on 23 February 2022 it had an indirect interest in 275,311,725 ordinary shares, representing 12.01% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 9 June 2022 that on 8 June 2022 it had an indirect interest in 295,342,819 ordinary shares, representing 13.04% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 17 June 2022 that on 16 June 2022 it had an indirect interest in 293,149,711 ordinary shares, representing 12.96% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 14 July 2022 that on 13 July 2022 it had an indirect interest in 293,899,574 ordinary shares, representing 13.03% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 28 July 2022 that on 27 July 2022 it had an indirect interest in 292,880,152 ordinary shares, representing 12.99% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 11 August 2022 that on 9 August 2022 it had an indirect interest in 292,841,616 ordinary shares, representing 13.00% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 11 May 2023 that on 10 May 2023 it had an indirect interest in 290,195,446 ordinary shares, representing 12.98% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 21 June 2024 that on 20 June 2024 it had an indirect interest in 289,142,364 ordinary shares, representing 13.01% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 10 July 2024 that on 8 July 2024 it had an indirect interest in ordinary shares of 287,970,670 ordinary; and financial instruments pursuant to DTR 5.3.1 R (1)(b) which refer to 246,755
voting rights, representing 12.96% and 0.01%, respectively, of the total voting rights at that date;
– 31 July 2024 that on 30 July 2024 it had an indirect interest in 289,303,974 ordinary shares, representing 13.04% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 2 December 2024 that on 29 November 2024 it had an indirect interest in 310,426,805 ordinary shares, representing 14.04% of the total voting rights at that date;
– 15 January 2025 that on 14 January 2025 it had an indirect interest in 332,948,937 ordinary shares, representing 15.08% of the total voting rights at that date; and
– 7 February 2025 that, on 6 February 2025, it had an indirect interest in 355,299,930 ordinary shares, representing 16.10% of the total voting rights at that date.
To the extent known by BAT, BAT is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation, any foreign government or by
any other natural or legal person, severally or jointly. BAT is not aware of any arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent
date result in a change of control of the Group.
456
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Articles of Association
The Company is a public limited company incorporated under the name of British American Tobacco p.l.c. and is registered in England
and Wales under registered number 3407696. Under the Companies Act 2006 (the “Companies Act”), the Company’s objects are
unrestricted. The following descriptions summarise certain provisions of the Company’s current Articles of Association (the “Articles”)
(as adopted by special resolution at the AGM on 19 April 2023), applicable English and Welsh law and the Companies Act. This
summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the Articles. Copies of the Articles are available on bat.com.
The Articles may be altered or added to, or completely new articles may be adopted, by a special resolution of the shareholders of the
Company, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act.
Share capital – structure
Ordinary shares
–all of the Company’s ordinary shares are fully paid
–no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares
Alteration of share capital – the Company by ordinary resolution may:
–consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a larger nominal amount than its existing shares
–divide or sub-divide any of its shares into shares of a smaller nominal amount than its existing shares
–determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage
as compared with the others
Alteration of share capital – the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, may:
–reduce its share capital, its capital redemption reserve and any share premium account in any way
–purchase its own shares, including redeemable shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares or cancel them
Dividend rights
–shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but not in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors
–the Directors may pay interim dividends out of distributable profits
–no dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of the profits available for distribution as specified under the provisions of the
Companies Act
–the Directors may, with the authority of an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, pay scrip dividends or satisfy the payment
of a dividend by the distribution of specific assets
–unclaimed dividends for a period of 12 years shall be forfeited and cease to be owed by the Company
–specific provisions enable the Directors to elect to pay dividends by bank or electronic transfer only
Share capital – voting rights
Voting at general meetings
–at a general meeting which has been convened as a hybrid meeting, on a poll, or otherwise by a show of hands, unless a poll
is demanded
–on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by the shareholder
–on a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person has one vote regardless of the number of shares held
by that shareholder
–every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has one vote except that if the proxy has been duly
appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to
vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote in
one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others (and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way),
they have one vote for and one vote against the resolution
–a shareholder (or their duly appointed proxy) entitled to more than one vote need not use all their votes or cast all the votes they use
in the same way
–a poll may be demanded by any of the following:
–the Chair of the meeting;
–the majority of the Directors present at the meeting;
–not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting;
–a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right
to vote at the meeting (excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares); or
–a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a right to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which
an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right
(excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares)
457
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Articles of Association
Continued
Share capital – voting rights continued
Matters transacted at general meetings
–ordinary resolutions can include resolutions for the appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the receiving of the Annual
Report, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the authority for the Company
to purchase its own shares and the grant of authority to allot shares
–an ordinary resolution is passed when a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum vote in favour
of the resolution
–special resolutions can include resolutions amending the Company’s Articles and resolutions relating to certain matters concerning
a winding‑up of the Company
–a special resolution is passed when not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum vote
in favour of the resolution
–quorum for a meeting of the Company is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy or by a duly authorised
representative(s) of a corporation which is a shareholder and entitled to vote
–voting record date: the Company may specify a time not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting (excluding any part of a
day that is not a working day) by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or
vote at the meeting
–postponement of a meeting: the Directors may postpone the time at which the meeting is held and/or change the place(s)
of a meeting any number of times before the meeting is held
–form of general meetings: the Directors may decide in relation to any general meeting (including a postponed or adjourned meeting)
whether it is to be held as a physical meeting or a hybrid meeting, and may make such arrangements as they may decide
in connection with the facilities for participation by electronic means (but may not convene a purely electronic meeting)
Share capital – pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares
–holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Articles – the ability of the Directors to cause the Company to issue
shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted
–under the Companies Act, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without
express authorisation, which may be contained in a company’s articles of association or given by its shareholders in a general
meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years
–under the Companies Act, a company may also not allot shares for cash (otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme)
without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in
proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders
Restrictions on transfers of shares
–Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid,
provided that such a refusal would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which are not fully paid from taking place
on an open and proper basis
–the Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form (whether fully paid or not) unless the instrument
of transfer:(a) is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office of the Company or such other place as the Directors
may appoint and is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may
reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer; (b) is in respect of only one class of share; and (c) is in
favour of not more than four transferees
–for uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations
2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a transfer which would require shares to be held jointly by more than four persons
–if the Directors refuse to register a share transfer, they must give the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and
in any event within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged with the Company
Repurchase of shares
–subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act
–any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon
completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Company’s issued share capital
458
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Directors
Appointment and retirement
–a Board of Directors of not fewer than five Directors and not subject to any maximum (unless otherwise determined by ordinary
resolution of shareholders)
–Directors and the Company (by ordinary resolution) may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director
–all Directors must retire from office at each annual general meeting (AGM) and seek re-election, except any Director appointed by the
Board after notice of that AGM has been given and before the AGM has been held. All of the Directors of the Company will be subject
to re-election at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 16 April 2025 in accordance with the Articles
–fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chair are determined by the Directors but cannot currently exceed in aggregate an annual
sum of £2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by ordinary resolution of the shareholders. This is subject to the provision that any
Director who holds any other office in the Company (including for this purpose, the office of Chair of the Board), serves on any
Committee of the Board, or performs services that the Directors consider go beyond the ordinary duties of a Director may be paid
such additional remuneration as the Directors may determine
–the remuneration of the Executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, which comprises independent
Non‑Executive Directors
Disclosure of interests
–the Articles require disclosure, subject to certain limited exceptions, of Directors’ interests in transactions that may result in a conflict
of interest, including those which may arise as a result of the Director’s office or employment or persons connected with such
Director, and identify procedures to resolve such conflicts of interest
Meetings and voting
–the quorum for a meeting of Directors is two Directors
–the Directors may delegate any of their powers to a person or a committee
–the Articles place a general prohibition on a Director voting at a Board meeting on any matter in which they have an interest other
than by virtue of their interest in shares in the Company
–the Articles restrict a Director’s ability to vote on any resolution concerning a matter in which such Director has a material interest,
unless such Director’s interest arises only because the resolution relates to the giving of guarantees; the provision of indemnities;
insurance proposals; retirement benefits; and other specified transactions or arrangements with a company in which the Director
may have an indirect interest
Borrowing powers
–the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property,
assets (present and future) and uncalled capital
–the Directors may also issue debentures, debenture stock and other securities
Additional disclosures
Disclosure of ownership of shares
–there are no provisions in the Articles whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Company’s
ordinary shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under statute
and regulation
Director retirement
–there is no requirement for a Director to retire on reaching any age
Sinking funds
–there is no sinking fund provision in the Articles applicable to the Company’s ordinary shares
Limitations on voting and shareholding
–there are no limitations under the Articles restricting the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote in relation to ordinary
shares in the Company
Distribution of assets on a winding up
–if the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution and any other sanction required by law,
divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and may, for that purpose, value any assets
and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members
–the liquidator may, with the like sanction, vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the members
as he may with the like sanction determine, but no member shall be compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability
Anti-takeover devices and change of control
–there are no provisions in the Articles that would have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover, or change of control,
of the Company
–under English law, the Company’s Directors have a fiduciary duty to take only those actions that are in the interests of the Company
and any anti-takeover devices employed by the Directors in the future, if any, must accordingly be in the interests of the Company
–the Company is also subject to the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the “City Code”), which governs the conduct of mergers
and takeovers in the UK. Any takeover of the Company would have to be in accordance with the City Code
459
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Purchase of Shares
Renewal of Authority for Company to Purchase Own Shares
Current authority –At the AGM on 24 April 2024, authorisation was given to the Company to purchase up to 223,642,156
to purchase shares ordinary shares. This authority will expire at the 2025 AGM.
–The current authorisation is expected to be renewed at the 2025 AGM to ensure that the appropriate
mechanisms are in place to continue repurchasing shares under the current share buy-back programme.
The Directors would exercise this authority where the repurchase of shares would be expected to result in
an increase in the Company’s earnings per share and would be in the interest of its shareholders generally.
Proposed authority –The minimum price that may be paid for such shares is 25p, and the maximum price is the higher of:
to purchase shares –an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle-market price for an ordinary share as derived from
the LSE Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary
share is contracted to be purchased; and
–the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an
ordinary share on the trading venues where the market purchases by the Company will be carried out;
–in the absence of the necessary practical arrangements, the proposed authority has not been extended to
enable BAT to purchase its own ordinary shares on the JSE in South Africa or the NYSE in the form of ADSs; and
–further details will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2025 which will be made available
to all shareholders and will be published on bat.com.
Treasury shares –At 31 December 2024, the number of treasury shares was 133,266,206 (2023: 220,533,855); no dividends
are paid on treasury shares; treasury shares have no voting rights; and treasury shares may be resold at
a later date.
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
On 18 March 2024, the Company announced the launch of a share buy-back programme to purchase £1.60 billion of its own ordinary
shares of 25 pence each (the "Programme") by 31 December 2025, with £700 million to be purchased in 2024, and the remaining £900
million to be purchased in 2025. The Programme commenced on the same date and all shares purchased pursuant to the Programme
will be cancelled to reduce the issued share capital of the Company.
Under the Programme, the Company purchased 27,571,116 shares for a total consideration of £699,999,231.65 in 2024 (average price of
£25.3889 per share), representing 1.25% of the Company's issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at 31 December 2024. All
shares purchased under the programme in 2024 were cancelled.
The following table provides details of ordinary share purchases made under the Programme, or made by the trustees of employee share
ownership plans (“ESOPs”) and other purchases of ordinary shares made to satisfy the commitments to deliver shares under certain
employee share-based payment plans.
The maximum £ of
Average price Total number of shares shares that may yet be
Total number of shares paid per purchased under purchased under the
purchased1 share £2 the Programme3 Programme3
2024
January 4,287 23.382097 — —
February 148,252 23.405684 — —
March 2,624,344 23.807607 2,620,000 1,537,620,279
April 7,789,873 23.204490 4,815,278 1,425,000,008
May 6,784,229 24.201104 6,646,202 1,263,967,882
June 1,492,723 24.615902 1,488,282 1,227,331,387
July 3,520,828 25.222080 3,516,585 1,138,632,782
August 1,902,000 27.829736 1,776,539 1,089,215,538
September 1,484,721 28.791255 1,481,192 1,046,570,068
October 2,004,191 26.831905 2,000,302 992,899,871
November 1,864,010 28.226535 1,738,094 943,709,761
December 1,492,307 29.361760 1,488,642 900,000,768
TOTAL 31,111,765 27,571,116
Notes:
1. Total number of shares purchased under the Programme, by trustees of ESOPs and under certain employee share-based plans. During the year ended 31 December 2024, a total of
3,540,649 shares were purchased in addition to shares purchased under the Programme. All share purchases were of ordinary shares of 25p each and were open market transactions.
No purchase of ADSs took place during the year ended 31 December 2024.
2. Average price paid across purchases made under the Programme, by the trustees of ESOPs and under certain employee share-based plans.
3. On 18 March 2024, the Company announced a Programme to purchase £1.60bn (US$2.04bn) of its own shares. The Programme will end no later than 31 December 2025. Authorisation
was given at the 2024 AGM to buy-back up to 223.64 million ordinary shares.
460
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Group Employee Trust
The British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust (BATGET)
Function –used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares under the BAT Deferred Share Bonus
Scheme and Long-Term Incentive Plans; and
–a committee of senior management reporting to the Board’s Share Schemes Committee monitors the
number of ordinary shares held in BATGET to satisfy outstanding awards.
Funding –funded by interest-free loan facilities from the Company totalling £1 billion;
–this enables BATGET to facilitate the purchase of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise
of options and awards;
–loan to BATGET: £557.81 million at 31 December 2024 (2023: £470.65 million);
–the loan is either repaid from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case where ordinary shares
acquired by BATGET are used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards, the Company will subsequently
waive the loan provided over the life of the awards; and
–if any options or awards lapse, ordinary shares may be sold by BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
1 Jan 2024 31 Dec 2024
Ordinary shares Number of ordinary shares 5,613,369 6,763,796
held in BATGET Market value of ordinary shares £128.85m £194.80m
% of issued share capital of Company 0.23 0.29
Dividends paid –BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by it; and
in 2024 –quarterly interim dividends waived: £14.61 million across 2024.
Voting rights –the trustee does not exercise any voting rights while ordinary shares are held in BATGET; and
–share scheme participants may exercise the voting rights attaching to those ordinary shares once the ordinary
shares have been transferred out of BATGET.
Notes:
1. Company share-based payment arrangements: details of the material equity share-based and cash-settled share-based arrangements are set out in note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts.
2. The values of ordinary shares shown are based on the closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2024: 2,880p (29 December 2023: 2,296p).
3. No ADSs are held by BATGET.
461
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
American Depositary Shares
Fees and Charges Payable by ADS Holders
Citibank, N.A. (Citibank) was appointed as the depositary bank (the “Depositary”) for BAT’s ADS programme pursuant to the Amended
and Restated Deposit Agreement dated 1 December 2008 and amended as of 14 February 2017 and 14 June 2017 between BAT,
the Depositary and the owners and holders of ADSs (the “Deposit Agreement”). Citibank was reappointed as the Depositary pursuant
to the Second Amended and Restated Deposit Agreement dated 26 November 2018 (the “Restated Deposit Agreement”) and pursuant
to a Letter Agreement effective from 1 December 2023 (the "Letter Agreement").
The Restated Deposit Agreement provides that ADS holders may be required to pay various fees to the Depositary, and the Depositary
may refuse to provide any service for which a fee is payable, until the applicable fee has been paid.
Service Fees
Issuance of ADSs upon deposit of ordinary shares (excluding issuances as a result
of distributions of shares described below) Up to US$0.05 per ADS issued1
Cancellation of ADSs Up to US$0.05 per ADS surrendered1
Distribution of cash dividends or other cash distributions (i.e., sale of rights and
other entitlements) Up to US$0.05 per ADS held2
Distribution of ADSs pursuant to: (1) stock dividends or other free stock
distributions; or (2) exercise of rights to purchase additional BAT ADSs Up to US$0.05 per ADS held
Distribution of securities other than ADSs or rights to purchase additional ADSs
(i.e., spinoff shares) Up to US$0.05 per ADS held
Depositary bank services Up to US$0.05 per ADS held
Notes:
1. Under the terms of a separate agreement between BAT and the Depositary, the Depositary has agreed to waive the fees that would otherwise be payable in connection with the
issuance of ADSs upon deposit of ordinary shares and the cancellation of ADSs and corresponding withdrawal of ordinary shares, in each case by BAT or any of its affiliates, officers,
directors or employees. The terms of this separate agreement may be amended at any time by BAT and the Depositary.
2. Under the Restated Deposit Agreement, cash dividends paid in respect of ADSs are subject to a fee of up to US$0.05 per ADS payable to the Depositary. Currently, under the terms of
the Letter Agreement, such dividends are subject to a fee of up to US$0.04 per ADR per year (a fee of US$0.01 per dividend based on the distribution of four quarterly cash dividends per
year). Under the Letter Agreement, the dividend fee may not be varied by the Depositary without the consent of BAT.
In addition, ADS holders may be required under the Restated Deposit Agreement to pay the Depositary: (a) taxes (including applicable
interest and penalties) and other governmental charges; (b) registration fees; (c) certain cable, telex and facsimile transmission and
delivery expenses; (d) the expenses and charges incurred by the Depositary in the conversion of foreign currency; (e) such fees and
expenses as are incurred by the Depositary in connection with compliance with applicable exchange control regulations and other
regulatory requirements; and (f) the fees and expenses incurred by the Depositary, the custodian or any nominee in connection with the
servicing or delivery of deposited securities. The Depositary may: (a) withhold dividends or other distributions or sell for the account of any
ADS holder any or all of the shares underlying the ADSs in order to satisfy any tax or governmental charge; and (b) deduct from any cash
distribution the applicable fees and charges of, and expenses incurred by, the Depositary and any taxes, duties or other governmental
charges on account.
Fees and Payments Made by the Depositary to BAT
Under the terms of the contractual arrangements set out in the separate agreement between BAT and the Depositary referred to above,
BAT received a total of approximately US$13.4 million from the Depositary, comprising fees charged in respect of dividends and a
contribution to BAT’s ADS programme administration costs for the year ended 31 December 2024.
In 2024, these programme administration costs principally included those associated with AGM proxy mailings, exchange listing and
regulatory fees, foreign private issuer analysis, legal fees, share registration fees and other expenses incurred by BAT in relation to the
ADS programme. Under these contractual arrangements, the Depositary has also agreed to waive certain standard fees associated with
the administration of the ADS programme.
Contact details for Citibank Shareholder Services are set out on page 463.
462
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholding Administration and Services
Ordinary Shareholder Enquiries If you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters,
United Kingdom Registrar please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at
Computershare Investor Services PLC (Computershare) www.fca.org.uk/scamsmart, where you can find out more about
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ investment scams. You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline
tel: 0800 408 0094 (UK only) or +44 370 889 3159 (Overseas) on 0800 111 6768. If you have lost money to investment fraud,
online: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus you should report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online
at www.actionfraud.police.uk.
South African Registrar
Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited Documents on Display and Publications
Private Bag X9000, Saxonwold, 2132, South Africa This Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 is available online at
tel: 0861 100 634; +27 11 870 8216 bat.com/annualreport. Copies of current and past Annual Reports
email: web.queries@computershare.co.za are available on request from:
American Depositary Shares Enquiries British American Tobacco Publications
All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment Unit 80, London Industrial Park, Roding Road, London E6 6LS
of dividends should be addressed to: tel: +44 20 7511 7797 email: bat@team365.co.uk
Citibank Shareholder Services Holders of shares held on the South Africa register can contact the
PO Box 43077, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3077, USA Company’s Representative office in South Africa using the contact
tel: +1 888 985 2055 (toll-free) or +1 781 575 4555 details shown at the end of this Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024.
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com ADS holders can contact Citibank Shareholder Services in the U.S.
website: www.citi.com/dr using the contact details shown opposite.
Manage Your Shareholding Online Highlights from the current and past Annual Reports can
Computershare operates an online service, Investor Centre, for be produced in alternative formats such as Braille, audio tape
holders of shares on the Company’s UK share register. Investor and large print.
Centre allows shareholders to manage their shareholding online, Documents referred to in this Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024
enabling shareholders to: do not form part of this Annual Report unless specifically
–update personal details and provide address changes; incorporated by reference.
–update dividend bank mandate instructions and review dividend The Company is subject to the information requirements of the
payment history; U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private
issuers. In accordance with these requirements, the Company files
–register for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”); and
its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other documents with the
–register to receive Company communications electronically. SEC. BAT’s SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s
To register for Investor Centre, go to website, www.sec.gov.
www.computershare.com/uk/investor/bri. The Company’s agent for service in the U.S. for the purposes of the
Shareholders with any queries regarding their holding should registration statement on Form F-3 (333-265958) is Puglisi &
contact Computershare using the above contact details or at Associates, 850 Library Avenue, Suite 204, Newark, DE 19711 U.S.A.
www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus. Our Website
Share dealing Comprehensive information about British American Tobacco is
Computershare also offers a share dealing service to existing available from our website: bat.com. Within the Investors section
shareholders. For full details on how to trade British American you will find valuation and charting tools, dividend and share price
Tobacco shares traded on the London Stock Exchange, go to data and you can download shareholder publications and
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk. Please note that this subscribe for email alert services. You can also download our
service is only available in certain countries. Investor Relations app to access all the latest financial information
on your iPad, iPhone or Android device.
Dividends
Comprehensive information on dividend payments is available Calendar 2025
on pages 449 and 450. Wed 16 April Annual General Meeting
DRIP at 11:30am Details of the venue and business to be
We offer a DRIP to our UK shareholders. The DRIP allows eligible proposed at the meeting are set out in the
shareholders to use their cash dividends to acquire additional Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is
shares in the Company. The DRIP shares are purchased by made available to all shareholders and is
Computershare through a low-cost dealing arrangement. Contact published on bat.com.
Computershare in the UK for details and exclusions of this service.
BAT provides for the vote on each resolution to
Taxation of dividends
be by poll rather than by a show of hands. This
See pages 451 and 454 for details on dividend taxation.
provides for greater transparency and allows
Historical UK capital gains tax information the votes of all shareholders to be counted,
is available at bat.com/cgt. Alternatively, contact the British including those cast by proxy. The voting results
American Tobacco Company Secretarial Department on will be released on the same day in accordance
+44 20 7845 1000.
with regulatory requirements and made
Share Fraud available on bat.com.
The practice of share fraud (also known as ‘boiler room’ scams)
Thurs 31 July Half-Year Report
unfortunately continues with many companies’ shareholders
receiving unsolicited phone calls or mail from people offering to
sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares
in U.S. or UK investments, or to buy shares at an inflated price in
return for an upfront payment.
463
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Exhibits
The following documents are filed in the SEC EDGAR system, as part of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, and can be viewed on the
SEC’s website, www.sec.gov:
Exhibit
Number Description
1 Articles of Association of British American Tobacco p.l.c.1
2.1 Second Amended and Restated Deposit Agreement, dated as of 26 November 2018, by and among British American Tobacco
p.l.c., Citibank, N.A., as depositary bank, and all holders and beneficial owners of American Depositary Shares issued
thereunder.2
2.2 Indenture, dated as of 15 August 2017, among British American Tobacco p.l.c. and certain of its subsidiaries as guarantors,
and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Trustee.3
2.3 Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of 28 September 2018, among British American Tobacco p.l.c. and certain of its
subsidiaries as guarantors, and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Trustee.4
2.4 Indenture, dated as of 6 September 2019, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party thereto and Citibank,
N.A., as trustee, authentication agent, transfer agent, registrar, calculation agent and initial paying agent.5
2.5 Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of 6 September 2019, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.6
2.6 Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of 6 September 2019, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.7
2.7 Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of 6 September 2019, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.8
2.8 Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of 2 April 2020, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party thereto
and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.9
2.9 Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of 2 April 2020, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party thereto
and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.10
2.10 Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of 2 April 2020, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party thereto
and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.11
2.11 Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of 25 September 2020, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.12
2.12 Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of 25 September 2020, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.13
2.13 Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of 25 September 2020, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.14
2.14 Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of 25 September 2020, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.15
2.15 Supplemental Indenture No. 12, dated as of 16 March 2022, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.16
2.16 Supplemental Indenture No. 13, dated as of 16 March 2022, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.17
2.17 Supplemental Indenture No. 14, dated as of 24 March 2022, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.18
2.18 Supplemental Indenture No. 15, dated as of 19 October 2022, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.19
2.19 Supplemental Indenture No. 16, dated as of 2 August 2023, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.20
2.20 Supplemental Indenture No. 17, dated as of 2 August 2023, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.21
2.21 Supplemental Indenture No. 18, dated as of 2 August 2023, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.22
2.22 Supplemental Indenture No. 19, dated as of 2 August 2023, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.23
2.23 Supplemental Indenture No. 20, dated as of 20 February, 2024, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.24
2.24 Supplemental Indenture No. 21, dated as of 20 February, 2024, by and among B.A.T Capital Corporation, the Guarantors party
thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.25
2.25 Indenture, dated as of 25 September 2020, by and among B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c., the Guarantors party thereto
and Citibank, N.A., as trustee, authentication agent, transfer agent, registrar, calculation agent and initial paying agent.26
2.26 Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of 25 September 2020, by and among B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c., the Guarantors
party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.27
464
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
2.27 Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of 16 March 2022, by and among B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c., the Guarantors
party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.28
2.28 Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of 2 August 2023, by and among B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c., the Guarantors
party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee.29
2.29 Thirty-fourth Supplemental Trust Deed, dated 17 March 2022, by and among B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c., B.A.T Capital
Corporation, B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V., British American Tobacco p.l.c. and the Law Debenture Trust Corporation p.l.c.,
further modifying the Trust Deed, dated as of 6 July 1998 (as previously modified and restated) relating to the
US$3,000,000,000 (now £25,000,000,000) Euro Medium Term Note Programme.30
2.30 Description of Securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.
4.1 Rules of the British American Tobacco 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.31
4.2 Rules of the British American Tobacco 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of 20 March 2023).32
4.3 British American Tobacco p.l.c. Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme.33
4.4 Annex to British American Tobacco p.l.c. Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme.34
4.5 British American Tobacco p.l.c. 2019 Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme (Amended and Restated as of 20 March 2023).35
4.6 Rules of the British American Tobacco Restricted Share Plan (Amended and Restated as of 20 March 2023).36
4.7 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc. (Amended and Restated Effective 30 November 2007).37
4.8 Service Contract between British American Tobacco p.l.c. and Tadeu Marroco, dated as of 14 May 2023.38
4.9 Service Contract between British American Tobacco p.l.c. and Soraya Benchikh, dated as of 1 November 2023.
4.10 Master Settlement Agreement, referred to as the MSA, dated 23 November 1998, between the Settling States named
in the MSA and the Participating Manufacturers also named therein.39
4.11 Settlement Agreement dated 25 August 1997, between the State of Florida and settling defendants in The State of Florida
v. American Tobacco Co.40
4.12 Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release dated 16 January 1998, between the State of Texas and settling
defendants in The State of Texas v. American Tobacco Co.41
4.13 Settlement Agreement and Release in re: The State of Minnesota v. Philip Morris, Inc., by and among the State of Minnesota,
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota and the various tobacco company defendants named therein, dated as of 8 May 1998.42
4.14 Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Entry of Consent Judgment in re: The State of Minnesota v. Philip Morris, Inc., by and
among the State of Minnesota, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota and the various tobacco company defendants named
therein, dated as of 8 May 1998.43
4.15 Form of Consent Judgment by Judge Kenneth J. Fitzpatrick, Judge of District Court in re: The State of Minnesota v. Philip
Morris, Inc.44
4.16 Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and for Entry of Agreed Order dated 2 July 1998, by and among
the Mississippi Defendants, Mississippi and the Mississippi Counsel in connection with the Mississippi Action.45
4.17 Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and for Entry of Consent Decree dated 24 July 1998, by and among
the Texas Defendants, Texas and the Texas Counsel in connection with the Texas Action.46
4.18 Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and for Entry of Consent Decree dated 11 September 1998, by and among
the State of Florida and the tobacco companies named therein.47
4.19 Term Sheet agreed to by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, an indirect subsidiary of Reynolds American Inc., certain other
Participating Manufacturers, 17 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.48
4.20 Revolving credit facilities agreement, dated as of 6 March 2023, among British American Tobacco p.l.c., B.A.T. International
Finance p.l.c., B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V. and B.A.T Capital Corporation, as borrowers, British American Tobacco p.l.c., as
guarantor, HSBC Bank plc, as agent and euro swingline agent, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as U.S. agent and US$
swingline agent, and the banks and financial institutions party thereto.49
4.21 Settlement Agreement dated February 1, 2024 between Nicoventures Trading Limited and Philip Morris Products S.A.50
8 List of Subsidiaries included on pages 371 to 380 in this report.
11.1 Code of Ethics.51
11.2 British American Tobacco Code for Share Dealing.
12 Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
13 Certification under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.52
15 Consent of KPMG LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
17 Guarantor Subsidiaries of the Registrant (included as part of Exhibit 2.30).
97 BAT Group Malus and Clawback Policy for Senior Executives.53
99 Cybersecurity disclosure excerpts from Item 16K of Form 20-F (for use in tagging the Interactive Data File in XBRL (Extensible
Business Reporting Language)).
101 Interactive Data Files (formatted in XBRL and furnished electronically).
465
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Shareholder Information
Exhibits
Continued
Notes:
1. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 19 April 2023.
2. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to BAT’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Reg. No. 333-237186) filed on 16 March 2020.
3. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.4 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2017 filed on 15 March 2018.
4. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to BAT’s Registration Statement on Form F-4 (Reg. No. 333-227658) filed on 2 October 2018.
5. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 6 September 2019.
6. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 6 September 2019.
7. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 6 September 2019.
8. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 6 September 2019.
9. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 2 April 2020.
10. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 2 April 2020.
11. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 2 April 2020.
12. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 25 September 2020.
13. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 25 September 2020.
14. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 25 September 2020.
15. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 25 September 2020.
16. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 16 March 2022.
17. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 16 March 2022.
18. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 24 March 2022.
19. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 19 October 2022.
20. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.'s Form 6-K filed on 2 August 2023.
21. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.'s Form 6-K filed on 2 August 2023.
22. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.'s Form 6-K filed on 2 August 2023.
23. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.'s Form 6-K filed on 2 August 2023.
24. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.'s Form 6-K filed on 20 February 2024.
25. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.'s Form 6-K filed on 20 February 2024.
26. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 25 September 2020.
27. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 25 September 2020.
28. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 16 March 2022.
29. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 2 August 2023.
30.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Registration Statement on Form F-3 (Reg. No. 333-265958) filed on 1 July 2022.
31. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to BAT’s Registration Statement on Form F-4 (Reg. No. 333-217939) filed on 12 May 2017.
32. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023 filed on 9 February 2024.
33. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to BAT’s Registration Statement on Form F-4 (Reg. No. 333-217939) filed on 12 May 2017.
34. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2018 filed on 15 March 2019.
35. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023 filed on 9 February 2024.
36. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023 filed on 9 February 2024.
37. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to Reynolds American Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2007 filed on 27 February 2008.
38. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023 filed on 9 February 2024.
39. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Form 8-K dated 24 November 1998.
40.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Form 8-K dated 5 September 1997.
41. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Form 8-K dated 27 January 1998.
42. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 30 March 1998 filed on 15 May 1998.
43. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 30 March 1998 filed on 15 May 1998.
44. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 30 March 1998 filed on 15 May 1998.
45. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 30 June 1998 filed on 14 August 1998.
46.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 30 June 1998 filed on 14 August 1998.
47. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 30 September 1998 filed on 12 November 1998.
48.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Reynolds American Inc.’s Form 8-K dated 12 March 2013.
49.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.19 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023 filed on 9 February 2024.
50.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Form 6-K filed on 8 February 2024.
51. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 11 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2021 filed on 8 March 2022.
52. These certifications are furnished only and are not filed as part of BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2024.
53. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 97 to BAT’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023 filed on 9 February 2024.
Certain instruments which define the rights of holders of long-term debt issued by BAT and its subsidiaries are not being filed because the total amount of
securities authorised under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total consolidated assets of BAT and its subsidiaries. BAT agrees to furnish copies
of any or all such instruments to the SEC on request.
466
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Other Information
Glossary
Abbreviation LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate
ADR American Depositary Receipt LSE London Stock Exchange
ADS American Depositary Share – 1 ADS is LR Listing Rules
equivalent to 1 BAT ordinary share LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan
AGM Annual General Meeting MCE Million cigarettes equivalent
AME Americas (excluding U.S.) and Europe MSA Master Settlement Agreement
AmSSA Americas (excluding U.S.) and Sub-Saharan NTO Net turnover or revenue
Africa
NYSE New York Stock Exchange
APFO Adjusted profit from operations
OCF Operating cash flow
APME Asia-Pacific and Middle East
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation
APMEA Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa and Development
bps Basis points OFAC The United States Department of the
cc Constant currency Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control
CDP Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project OTP Other tobacco products, including but not
CGFO Cash generated from operations limited to roll-your-own, make-your-own
CO2e Carbon dioxide equivalent and cigars
Parker Report The Parker Review Committee’s final report
Code UK Corporate Governance Code, July 2018
on ethnic diversity in UK boards published
version
on 12 October 2017
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
CSRD EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting
ppts Percentage points
Directive
Reynolds American Reynolds American Inc.
DOJ The United States Department of Justice
Reynolds American Reynolds American Inc. and its subsidiary
DSBS Deferred share bonus scheme
Companies companies
EMTN European Medium Term Notes
ROCE Return on capital employed
ENA Europe and North Africa
RRPs Reduced-risk Products
EPS Earnings per share
Ryde The Group’s functional shot brand Ryde:TM
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance
SAFL Sustainable Agriculture and Farmer Livelihoods
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning
SEC United States Securities and Exchange
ESRS European Sustainability Reporting Standards
Commission
EU European Union
SIP Share incentive plan
EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offered Rate
SoBC Group Standards of Business Conduct
FII GLO Franked Investment Income Group
SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate
Litigation Order
SONIA Sterling Overnight Index Average
FCTC Framework Convention on Tobacco Control
SOx United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
FMCG Fast Moving Consumer Goods
SRS Share reward scheme
FRC UK Financial Reporting Council
TaO Programme to implement the new
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
operating model, including one instance of
GDB Global Drive Brands, being Kent, Dunhill, Pall SAP
Mall, Lucky Strike and Rothmans
TCFD Taskforce on Climate-related Financial
GDPR EU General Data Protection Regulation Disclosures
GDSB Global Drive and Key Strategic Brands, being TDR TDR d.o.o
the GDBs, plus Shuang Xi and State Express
THP Tobacco Heated Product
555
THR Tobacco Harm Reduction
GJ Gigajoules (of energy use)
TPD1 European Tobacco Products Directive
HP Heated Products (i.e., the devices, which
(directive 2001/37/EC)
include glo and our hybrid products).
TPD2 European Tobacco and Related Products
Heated Products are used to heat our
Directive
Tobacco Heated Products or Herbal Heated
(directive 2014/40/EU)
Products
TSR Total shareholder return
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
U.S. United States of America
IEIS International Executive Incentive Scheme
UURBS Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as
scheme
issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU
WHO World Health Organization
ISA International Standards on Auditing
JSE Johannesburg Stock Exchange
KPI Key performance indicator
467
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Other Information
Cross-Reference to Form 20-F
Item Form 20-F caption Location in this document
1 Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers N/A
2 Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable N/A
3 Key Information
A Selected financial data N/A
B Capitalization and indebtedness N/A
C Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds N/A
D Risk factors 155–162, 414–435
4 Information on the Company
A History and development of the Company Inside front cover page, 26–27, 40, 56, 123, 299–302,
336–337, 390, 412, 457, 463, Inside back cover page
B Business overview (24–751,) 12–36, 39, 42–47, 50, 74-77, 106, 108-109, 127–128, 157,
161, 180–181, 274–277, 390–391, 417–419, 422–430, 436–
440, 443, 445
C Organizational structure 371–380, 390
D Property, plants and equipment 299–300, 443
4a Unresolved staff comments N/A
5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects
A Operating results 20-29, 31, 33–36, 42–52, 54, 57–59, 126–127, 157–158,
160, 274–277, 297-299, 314-316, 332, 410, 412, 422–430,
436–440
B Liquidity and capital resources 55–57, 59, 268, 317, 324–326, 331–335, 366–367, 412, 432
C Research and development, patents and licenses 15, 26–33, 37, 50, 60–61, 73–77, 83, 93, 281, 390, 434–435
D Trend information 6–9, 10 (other than: Organic Revenue at cc (%); Organic
Revenue from New Categories at cc (%); Smokeless
revenue as % of total revenue (%); Adjusted Organic
Profit from Operations at cc (%); Adjusted Diluted
Earnings per Share (p); Adjusted Organic Diluted
Earnings per Share at cc (%) and Total Shareholder
Return (rank), and, in each case, related footnote 5), 12–
21, 23-25, 42–47, 49–59, 60–62, 120–127, 144, 155–162,
436–440
E Critical Accounting Estimates N/A
6 Directors, Senior Management and Employees
A Directors and senior management 166–171, 185
B Compensation 10, 49, 166–171, 191, 213–246, 302–309, 341–342, 395–401,
405–407, 410, 459
C Board practices 166–171, 191, 194-227, 238–240, 244–246, 342, 446, 459
D Employees 341, 411
E Share ownership 230–233, 242–243, 338–340, 461
F Disclosure of a registrant’s action to recover erroneously N/A
awarded compensation
7 Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions
A Major shareholders 455–456
B Related party transactions 341–342
C Interests of experts and counsel N/A
8 Financial Information
A Consolidated statements and other financial information 54, 158, 196, 260–370, 425–429, 449–450
B Significant changes N/A
9 The Offer and Listing
A Offer and listing details 448
B Plan of distribution N/A
C Markets 448
D Selling shareholders N/A
E Dilution N/A
F Expenses of the issue N/A
468
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information
Item Form 20-F caption Location in this document
10 Additional Information
A Share capital N/A
B Memorandum and Articles of Association 231, 457–459
C Material contracts 441–442
D Exchange controls 449
E Taxation 451–454
F Dividends and paying agents N/A
G Statements by experts N/A
H Documents on display 463–466
I Subsidiary information N/A
J Annual Report to Security Holders N/A
11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 331–335
12 Description of Securities Other Than Equity Securities
A Debt securities N/A
B Warrants and rights N/A
C Other securities N/A
D American Depositary Shares 462
13 Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies N/A
14 Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders N/A
and Use of Proceeds
15 Controls and Procedures 260–261, 445
16A Audit Committee Financial Expert 195, 444
16B Code of Ethics 204, 444, 465
16C Principal Accountant Fees and Services 203–204, 283
16D Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit N/A
Committees
16E Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and 460
Affiliated Purchasers
16F Change in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant N/A
16G Corporate Governance 444
16H Mine Safety Disclosure N/A
16I Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent N/A
Inspections
16J Insider Trading Policies 444, 465
16K Cybersecurity 162, 199–200, 416, 428
17 Financial Statements N/A
18 Financial Statements 262–370
19 Exhibits 464–465
469
Page intentionally left blank
470
471
EXHIBIT 99
Form 20-F disclosures required under item 16K - cybersecurity
Group Principal Risks - p. 162 of British American Tobacco p.l.c.’s Annual Report and Form 20-F 2024 (‘Annual Report and 20-F’):
Cyber Security
Inability of the organisation to defend against an intentional or unintentional action that results in loss of confidentiality,
availability or integrity of systems and data.
Time frame Strategic impact Key Stakeholders
Short-/medium-/long-term Quality Growth/Sustainable Consumers, Society, Our
Future/Dynamic Business People, Shareholders &
Investors
Impact
Loss or theft of confidential business information, when used alone
or in conjunction with any other available information reduces the
impact of BAT business strategy, investments and commercial
operations.
Personal data breach incidents that result in the disclosure of
personally identifiable data resulting in legal, reputational, and
regulatory compliance impacts.
Disruption to BAT’s business operations that impacts R&D
facilities, manufacturing, distribution or technology services
resulting in business interruption and/or impacts to health & safety.
Inappropriate use of technology systems, including the use of AI-
powered tools, to enable fraud, or theft of product, technology, or
monetary resources.
Loss of digital trust resulting in brand damage and a loss of
consumer trust.
A cyber incident experienced by a third-party partner or supplier
resulting in business interruption, supply chain disruption, loss of
company data or provides access or transmission of malicious
activity from the supplier to BAT.
Non-compliance with cybersecurity standards and system
vulnerabilities can precipitate other Group principal risks.
1
Audit Committee report - pp. 199-200 of the Annual Report and 20-F:
Cyber Security Risk Management and Internal Controls
Risk management and strategy
Cyber security is crucial to the Group’s business operations, as the Group relies on information and digital technology (IDT) systems and
networks to conduct core activities, such as manufacturing, distribution, marketing, customer service, R&D and financial and management
reporting, amongst other core activities.
The Board acknowledges that cyber security threats present significant risks to the Group’s business, reputation, financial condition and
competitive position, and to the security and privacy of our consumers, employees and other stakeholders. This is particularly relevant as the
Group transforms its business and introduces new technologies, such as loyalty programmes, connected technologies and other interactive
platforms, which may alter its risk profile and are likely to increase the Group’s exposure to such threats.
The Group implements processes to identify, assess and manage material cyber security risks. These processes are integrated into the
Group’s overall risk management systems and processes, overseen by the Board and implemented by management. The Group implements
various processes to manage and mitigate the material risks from cyber security threats, including:
–implementing appropriate technical and organisational security measures, such as defensive technologies, encryption, authentication, and
backup and recovery systems, to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of IDT systems and networks, and the data stored on
or transmitted through them;
–providing regular training and awareness programmes to Group company employees and contractors on cyber security best practices and
procedures, adherence to our SoBC (including cyber security and information security requirements) and other relevant standards;
–maintaining vendor management processes for key vendors, including conducting due diligence and incorporating contractual obligations,
intended to ensure that third-party service providers with access to Group IDT systems and networks, or that process or store Group data,
adhere to our cyber security requirements and standards;
–developing, maintaining and testing thorough incident response and business continuity procedures designed to enable the Group to
promptly detect, contain, analyse, report and recover from any potential or actual incidents and minimise their impact on our operations
and stakeholders;
–engaging external assessors, consultants and other third parties as appropriate, to support cyber security risk assessment, identification
and management processes and to provide independent assurance and recommendations; and
–engaging with relevant internal and external stakeholders, such as regulators, law enforcement authorities, customers and other industry
stakeholders, on cyber security matters and being prepared to disclose any material cyber security risks or incidents in a timely and
transparent manner.
Our SoBC and Supplier Code of Conduct (discussed on page 116) both include requirements for cyber security risk management.
The Group regularly reviews and updates its cyber security risk processes to support alignment with business objectives, regulatory
requirements and industry standards. In view of the continued transformation of the Group’s business and evolution of the Group’s product
portfolio, the Group is enhancing its digital risk management programme, including by revising its cyber security controls and incident
response plan, augmenting its cyber security team, increasing engagement across the business and extending coverage to a broadening
range of solutions and technologies to improve the identification, management, monitoring and reporting of cyber risks. Feedback and
learnings from audits, assessments and incident reports are reviewed and used on a regular basis to enhance the Group’s cyber resilience
programme and awareness.
Cyber security risk management is integrated into, and follows, the Group’s risk identification process (see page 198). Cyber security risks are
integrated into the Group risk register and assessed by defined impact and likelihood categories (set out on page 198).
For additional information on cyber security threats and how these could materially affect our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition, refer
to the Group Principal Risk 'Cyber Security' on page 162 and Group risk factor 'Disruption to the Group's data and information technology systems' on page 416
Governance and oversight
The Board is responsible for the Group's strategy, including oversight of the Group’s IDT and cyber security strategy, and for reviewing the
effectiveness of its risk management and internal control systems. On an annual basis, the Board reviews the Group risk register, which
incorporates cyber security risks (discussed on pages 162, 198 to 199 and 416). Through the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, the Board
has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including the review of the Group's risk management and internal control
framework to ensure there is due process for risk identification and management, monitoring the effectiveness of material controls,
reviewing the Group risk register and emerging risks, and monitoring procedures and controls for safeguarding assets including cyber
security controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the Group risk register twice annually and is briefed periodically on the cyber risk landscape and Group cyber
resilience by the Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) (reporting to the Director, Digital & Information). In 2024, all Directors were
briefed at an Audit Committee meeting on the cyber risk landscape and the Group’s cyber security resilience programme by the Director,
Digital & Information and the Group CISO. The Audit Committee receives reports from the Corporate Audit Committee, which monitors the
effectiveness of risk management and internal controls across the Group’s functions and oversees the Group’s cyber security risk
management framework. The Corporate Audit Committee receives half-yearly reports from the Group CISO on current and emerging cyber
security threats to the Group, measures taken to prevent, detect and respond to those threats and efficacy of cyber security controls and
incident response plans.
The Group maintains a dedicated cyber security team, led by the Group CISO, responsible for developing and implementing the Group’s cyber
security strategy, standards and procedures, including to address any material incident that might arise. The Group's cyber security team has
appropriate professional expertise, knowledge and experience in the field, including to identify, assess and manage cyber security risks,
2
maintain appropriate security monitoring, incident response and business continuity procedures, and to implement those should an incident
arise. Senior cyber security team members, including the Group CISO, all have prior relevant industry experience. The Group CISO has over 20
years of information security experience, previously serving as CISO for GSK’s Pharmaceutical, Supply Chain, and R&D divisions before joining
the Group. Relevant industry certifications are also held within the cyber security team, for example, Certified Information Security Manager
(CISM), Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), Certified in Risk and Information Systems Controls (CRISC), Certified Incident Handler,
Certified Forensic Analyst and Certified Information Systems Security Professional. The team leverages professional memberships from
ISACA and SANS Institute for continuous professional development.
The Group's cyber security team actively monitors and evaluates the evolving cyber security threat landscape. It assesses the security
posture of the Group’s IDT landscape using various tools, including vulnerability scans, penetration tests and control assessments. Specialists
are engaged on an annual basis to assess the Group’s cyber security programme and identify and prioritise cyber security risks and
vulnerabilities. Key findings from these assessments and incident summaries are reported periodically to the Director, Digital & Information
and to the Audit Committee, accompanied by recommendations for mitigating or addressing any identified risks. Any significant cyber
security incidents would be reported as soon as reasonably practicable to the Audit Committee and the Board in accordance with the
Group’s incident response procedures.
3
Other information - Group Risk Factors - p. 416 of the Annual Report and 20-F:
Risk: Disruption to the Group’s data and information technology systems, including by cyber attack or the malicious
manipulation or disclosure of confidential or sensitive information
Description
The Group relies on information and digital technology (IDT) systems and networks to conduct core activities, such as manufacturing,
distribution, marketing, customer service, R&D and financial and management reporting, amongst other core activities. There is a risk
that these systems (of the Group or of a third party within the Group's supply chain) may be disrupted by intentional or unintentional
actions that may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information, result in the inappropriate disclosure of
confidential information, disrupt the operations of the Group, or may lead to false or misleading statements being made about the Group.
The external threat levels continue to rise with attackers becoming increasingly sophisticated, equipped with AI-powered tools, and
collateral damage from nation state cyber-attacks becomes a leading cause of cyber incidents. The development and implementation of
AI in our products and/or supply chain will have an impact on the cyber security threat landscape and may increase the exposure to cyber
threats in general.
Impact
Management recognises that cyber security threats could pose significant risks to the Group’s business, reputation, financial condition,
and competitive position, and to the safety and privacy of our consumers, employees and other stakeholders.
Any disruption to IDT systems related to the Group’s operations could adversely affect its business and result in financial, legal and
reputational impacts. Any delays or failure to detect or respond to attempts to gain unauthorised access to the Group’s information
technology systems can lead to a loss in confidentiality, integrity or availability of systems and/or data.
A security incident with respect to IDT systems may result in:
–Loss or theft of confidential business information: Unauthorized access to trade secrets and sensitive commercial data can dilute the
Group's strategic influence, affecting investments and operations. This could materially impact regulatory compliance and lead to a
loss of competitive edge.
–Personal data breach incidents: Exposure of personally identifiable data can lead to legal, reputational, and compliance issues, along
with potential loss of sales, consumers, and market share.
–Operational disruption: Cyber incidents disrupting R&D, manufacturing, distribution, or technology services can cause business
interruptions and health and safety risks, leading to production halts and revenue loss.
–Inappropriate use of IDT systems to enable fraud, or theft of product, technology, or monetary resources.
–Loss of digital trust: Cyber incidents compromising the Group's digital presence can damage the brand and diminish consumer trust,
potentially affecting sales and strategic timelines.
–Third-party cyber risks: Cyber incidents within partner or supplier networks can lead to business interruptions, supply chain issues,
data loss, or the spread of malicious activities to the Group, necessitating robust third-party risk management.
4
Other information - Group Risk Factors - p. 428 of the Annual Report and 20-F:
Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks continued
Risk: Insufficient product stewardship and failure to comply with product regulations
Description
The Group is subject to risks of safety incidents in pre-market testing or in market due to, for example, a lack of due caution and
appropriate response paid to pre-market product data, or toxicology information, inaccurate and unreliable information from suppliers
and/or compromise of data or other information through cybersecurity attacks.
The interpretation and application of regulations concerning the Group’s products, such as the Tobacco and Related Products Directive
(TPD2), may be subject to debate and uncertainty. This includes uncertainty over product classifications and restrictions on advertising.
In particular, with respect to the developing category of New Categories, which has grown in size and complexity in a relatively short
period of time, a consensus framework for the interpretation and application of existing regulation has yet to emerge.
The continuously changing and evolving landscape of regulation concerning the Group’s products contributes to the uncertainty
surrounding interpretation and application and creates a risk that the Group may misinterpret or fail to comply with developing
regulations in the various jurisdictions in which it operates, or becomes subject to enforcement actions from regulators. With the
continuous changing of product cycle plans and expansion to new markets and innovations, there is a risk that such changes and
launches fail to comply with the relevant regulations, including pre-approval and/or pre-registration requirements. For example, some
governments have intentionally banned or are seeking to ban novel tobacco products and products containing nicotine, while others
would need to amend their existing legislation to permit their sale. Even in countries where the sale of such products is currently
permitted, some governments have adopted, or are seeking to adopt, bans on New Categories or restrictions on certain flavours.
Impact
The significant number of emerging regulations and the uncertainty surrounding their interpretation and application may subject the
Group to claims for breach of such regulations. Financial costs of such enforcement actions include financial penalties, product recalls
and litigation costs, and entail a significant risk of adverse publicity and damage to the Group’s reputation and goodwill. In cases of
consumer injury or fatality due to a consumer product safety issue, this could also cause significant Group reputational damage, leading
to a negative impact on stakeholder confidence, including consumers, retailers, investors, and regulatory and public health organisations.
5
Exhibit 2.30
Description of Securities Registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the “Exchange Act”)
As of December 31, 2024, British American Tobacco p.l.c. (“BAT”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”
and “our”) had the following series of securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act:
Name of exchange on
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) which registered
American Depositary Shares BTI New York Stock Exchange
(evidenced by American
Depositary Receipts) each
representing one ordinary share
Ordinary shares, nominal value 25 BTI New York Stock Exchange*
pence per share
5.834% Notes due 2031 BTI31A New York Stock Exchange
6.000% Notes due 2034 BTI34 New York Stock Exchange
5.931% Notes due 2029 BTI29A New York Stock Exchange
6.343% Notes due 2030 BTI30A New York Stock Exchange
6.421% Notes due 2033 BTI33 New York Stock Exchange
7.079% Notes due 2043 BTI43 New York Stock Exchange
7.081% Notes due 2053 BTI53 New York Stock Exchange
7.750% Notes due 2032 BTI32A New York Stock Exchange
4.742% Notes due 2032 BTI32 New York Stock Exchange
5.650% Notes due 2052 BTI52 New York Stock Exchange
4.448% Notes due 2028 BTI28A New York Stock Exchange
2.259% Notes due 2028 BTI28 New York Stock Exchange
2.726% Notes due 2031 BTI31 New York Stock Exchange
3.734% Notes due 2040 BTI40 New York Stock Exchange
3.984% Notes due 2050 BTI50A New York Stock Exchange
1.668% Notes due 2026 BTI26A New York Stock Exchange
4.700% Notes due 2027 BTI27A New York Stock Exchange
4.906% Notes due 2030 BTI30 New York Stock Exchange
5.282% Notes due 2050 BTI50 New York Stock Exchange
3.215% Notes due 2026 BTI26 New York Stock Exchange
3.462% Notes due 2029 BTI29 New York Stock Exchange
4.758% Notes due 2049 BTI49 New York Stock Exchange
3.557% Notes due 2027 BTI27 New York Stock Exchange
4.390% Notes due 2037 BTI37 New York Stock Exchange
4.540% Notes due 2047 BTI47 New York Stock Exchange
* Listed, not for trading, but only in connection with the listing of the applicable Registrant’s
American Depositary Shares issued in respect thereof.
BAT is the issuer of the ordinary shares and the ordinary shares represented by the American
Depositary Shares, as described below. The rest of the securities registered pursuant to Section
[[6543924]]
12(b) of the Exchange Act described herein were issued by either B.A.T. International Finance
p.l.c. (“BATIF”) or B.A.T Capital Corporation (“BATCAP”), wholly-owned finance subsidiaries
of BAT. BAT is a guarantor and co-registrant of the securities issued by each of BATIF and
BATCAP described herein.
BAT’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares are described below under “Description
of BAT Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares”. BATIF’s 5.931% Notes due 2029,
4.448% Notes due 2028 and 1.668% Notes due 2026 are described below under “Description of
the Notes Issued Under the BATIF Indenture”. BATCAP’s 5.834% Notes due 2031, 6.000%
Notes due 2034, 6.343% Notes due 2030, 6.421% Notes due 2033, 7.079% Notes due 2043,
7.081% Notes due 2053, 7.750% Notes due 2032, 4.742% Notes due 2032, 5.650% Notes due
2052, 2.259% Notes due 2028, 2.726% Notes due 2031, 3.734% Notes due 2040, 3.984% Notes
due 2050, 4.700% Notes due 2027, 4.906% Notes due 2030, 5.282% Notes due 2050, 3.215%
Notes due 2026, 3.462% Notes due 2029 and 4.758% Notes due 2049 are described below under
“Description of the Notes Issued Under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture”. BATCAP’s 3.557%
Notes due 2027, 4.390% Notes due 2037 and 4.540% Notes due 2047 are described below under
“Description of the Notes Issued Under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture”.
Capital terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given to them in BAT’s Annual
Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Terms that are defined below
retain such definitions solely for purposes of the relevant description of securities.
A. Guarantor Subsidiaries of the Registrant
BATCAP, B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V. (“BATNF”) and, unless its guarantee is released in
accordance with the BATIF Indenture (as defined below), Reynolds American Inc. (“RAI”),
each of which is an indirect 100% owned subsidiary of BAT, have fully and unconditionally
guaranteed (along with BAT) BATIF’s obligations under the following senior unsecured notes
issued by BATIF, which is a direct 100% owned subsidiary of BAT, under the BATIF Indenture:
• 5.931% Notes due 2029;
• 4.448% Notes due 2028; and
• 1.668% Notes due 2026.
BATIF, BATNF and, unless its guarantee is released in accordance with the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture (as defined below), RAI have fully and unconditionally guaranteed (along with BAT)
BATCAP’s obligations under the following senior unsecured notes issued by BATCAP, under
the 2019 BATCAP Indenture:
• 5.834% Notes due 2031;
• 6.000% Notes due 2034;
• 6.343% Notes due 2030;
• 6.421% Notes due 2033;
2
[[6543924]]
• 7.079% Notes due 2043;
• 7.081% Notes due 2053;
• 7.750% Notes due 2032;
• 4.742% Notes due 2032;
• 5.650% Notes due 2052;
• 2.259% Notes due 2028;
• 2.726% Notes due 2031;
• 3.734% Notes due 2040;
• 3.984% Notes due 2050;
• 4.700% Notes due 2027;
• 4.906% Notes due 2030;
• 5.282% Notes due 2050;
• 3.215% Notes due 2026;
• 3.462% Notes due 2029; and
• 4.758% Notes due 2049.
BATIF, BATNF, British American Tobacco Holdings (The Netherlands) B.V. (“BATHTN”),
which is an indirect 100% owned subsidiary of BAT, and, unless its guarantee is released in
accordance with the 2017 BATCAP Indenture (as defined below), RAI have fully and
unconditionally guaranteed (along with BAT) BATCAP’s obligations under the following senior
unsecured notes issued by BATCAP, under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture:
• 3.557% Notes due 2027;
• 4.390% Notes due 2037; and
• 4.540% Notes due 2047.
3
[[6543924]]
B. Description of BAT Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares
DESCRIPTION OF BAT ORDINARY SHARES
The following is a summary of the material terms of (1) the BAT ordinary shares as set forth in
the BAT articles of association; (2) English law insofar as it applies to the BAT ordinary shares;
and (3) the BAT articles of association, which were adopted pursuant to a special resolution (as
defined below) on April 19, 2023. Please note that this is only a summary, and may not contain
all of the relevant information.
BAT Articles of Association
BAT is registered in England and Wales under the UK Companies Act 2006 with company
registration number 3407696. BAT’s purposes and objects are not restricted.
Share Capital
As at December 31, 2024, the issued and fully paid share capital of BAT was 2,342,825,304
ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of 25 pence. Of this number, 133,266,206 ordinary
shares were registered as treasury shares. There are no acquisition rights or obligations in
relation to the issue of BAT ordinary shares in the capital of BAT or an undertaking to increase
the capital of BAT. There are no convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with
warrants in BAT.
BAT ordinary shares are fully paid and, accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be
required by BAT from the holders of BAT ordinary shares.
Further Issuances of Share Capital and Preemptive Rights
Pursuant to the UK Companies Act 2006, BAT’s directors are, with certain exceptions, not
permitted to allot any equity securities without express authorization from BAT’s shareholders.
Further, under the UK Companies Act 2006, BAT may not issue shares for cash (other than
pursuant to an employee share scheme) without first making an offer to existing shareholders to
allot such shares to them on the same or more favorable terms in proportion to their respective
shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders. See
“—Voting Rights” for an explanation of the requirements for approval of a special resolution.
Subject to receipt of authorization from BAT’s shareholders, the directors may issue shares with
such rights or restrictions, including shares that are redeemable at the option of BAT or the
shareholder, as the directors or BAT by ordinary resolution may determine. In the event that
rights and restrictions attaching to shares are determined by the directors or ordinary resolution,
as set out in the preceding sentence, those rights and restrictions shall apply, in particular in place
of any rights or restrictions that would otherwise apply by virtue of the Companies Act 2006 in
the absence of any provisions in the BAT articles of associations, as if those rights and
restrictions were set out therein. See “—Voting Rights” for an explanation of the requirements
for approval of an ordinary resolution.
4
[[6543924]]
Throughout this section, references to shares of BAT refer to any shares that may be issued out
of the capital of BAT, including BAT ordinary shares.
Changes to the Share Capital
Shareholder approval by ordinary resolution is required for BAT to:
• consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger nominal
amount than its existing shares;
• sub-divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of a smaller nominal amount than its
existing shares; and
• determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a sub-division, any of the
shares may have any preference or advantage as compared with the other classes of share.
The UK Companies Act 2006 contains the procedural requirements for a reduction of capital.
The reduction of capital must be approved by shareholders by special resolution, and must be
approved by a court. The decision to approve the reduction is at the court’s discretion, and it will
consider whether (a) the reduction is for a discernible purpose, (b) all shareholders are treated
equally, (c) the reduction has been properly explained to shareholders and (d) the company’s
creditors are safeguarded. Subject to these requirements, BAT may reduce its share capital, its
capital redemption reserve and any share premium account in any way.
Repurchase of Shares
Once approved by BAT shareholders by ordinary resolution and subject to certain procedural
requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006, BAT may repurchase its own shares, including
any BAT ordinary shares and any redeemable shares that may be issued. Any shares which have
been repurchased may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be canceled immediately
upon the completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of BAT’s issued share capital.
Dividends
BAT shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the
respective rights of the shareholders but no dividends shall exceed the amount recommended by
the directors. No dividend shall be paid other than out of profits available for distribution as
specified in the UK Companies Act 2006. The directors may pay interim dividends or dividends
payable at a fixed rate, if it appears to them that they are justified by the profits of BAT available
for distribution. If the directors act in good faith, they shall not incur any liability to the holders
of shares conferring preferred rights for any loss they may suffer by the lawful payment of an
interim dividend on any shares having deferred or non- preferred rights, including the BAT
ordinary shares.
BAT ordinary shares carry the right to receive dividends and distributions that have been
declared by BAT on a pro rata basis but have no other right to share in the profits of BAT and
are not entitled to any fixed income. BAT may issue shares that rank prior to the BAT ordinary
shares in respect of payment of dividends.
5
[[6543924]]
BAT shareholders may, at a general meeting declaring a dividend, upon the recommendation of
the directors and by ordinary resolution, direct that the payment of all or any part of the dividend
be satisfied by the distribution of specific assets and, where any difficulty arises in regard to the
distribution, the directors may settle the same as they think fit.
The directors may, with the approval of BAT shareholders by ordinary resolution, offer any
holders of BAT ordinary shares the right to elect to receive BAT ordinary shares, credited as
fully paid, instead of cash in respect of the whole (or some part, to be determined by the
directors) of any dividend. BAT or the directors may fix a date and time as the record date by
reference to which persons registered as holders of shares or other securities shall be entitled to
receipt of any dividend, distribution, allotment or issue made, and that date may be before, on or
after the date on which the dividend, distribution, allotment or issue is declared.
No dividend or other money payable in respect of a share shall bear interest against BAT, unless
otherwise provided by the rights attached to the share. Dividends or other distributions paid in
respect of BAT ordinary shares do not bear interest.
The directors may elect to pay dividends solely by means of electronic transfer, or such other
method as the directors deem appropriate and which method may be different for different
holders or groups of holders of shares, to an account nominated in writing by the holder of the
shares. Amounts due to shareholders who provide no, or invalid, account details may be held in
an account in BAT’s name until such shareholders nominate a valid account.
BAT may cease sending dividend payments in respect of any shares if:
• in respect of at least two consecutive dividends payable on that share, the cheque or
warrant has been returned undelivered or remains uncashed by the shareholder, or
another method of payment has failed; or
• in respect of one dividend payable on that share, the cheque or warrant has been returned
undelivered or remains uncashed by the shareholder, or another method of payment has
failed, and reasonable inquiries have failed to establish a shareholder’s new address or
account; or
• a shareholder does not specify an address, or does not specify an account of a type
prescribed by the directors, or other details necessary in order to make a payment of a
dividend by the means by which the directors have decided in accordance with BAT’s
Articles of Association that a payment is to be made, or by which the shareholder has
elected to receive payment, and such address or details are necessary in order for BAT to
make the relevant payment in accordance with such decision or election.
BAT must recommence sending payments for dividends payable on that share if the person(s)
entitled so request and have supplied in writing a new address or account to be used for that
purpose.
Any dividend which has remained unclaimed for 12 years from the date when it became due for
payment will be forfeited and cease to remain owing by BAT and BAT will not be obliged to
6
[[6543924]]
account to, or be liable in any respect to, the recipient or person who would have been entitled to
the amount.
Voting Rights
All BAT ordinary shares have equal voting rights and shareholders, proxies and corporate
representatives are entitled to attend and vote at all general meetings of BAT. BAT may issue,
subject to the restrictions discussed above under the caption “—Share Capital—Further
Issuances of Share Capital and Preemptive Rights” shares with preferential voting rights. This
section assumes that all shares have equal voting rights and that no preferential shares are issued.
Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
Under English law, resolutions to be voted on by shareholders at a general meeting can be either
an ordinary resolution, which means that the resolution must be passed by a simple majority of
shareholders or holders of a simple majority of the shares (depending on whether the vote is by a
show of hands or by a poll) present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the general
meeting, or a special resolution, which means that the resolution must be passed by a majority of
not less than 75% of the shareholders or holders of 75% of the shares (depending on whether the
vote is by a show of hands or by a poll) present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the
general meeting. For a resolution to be regarded as a special resolution, the notice of the general
meeting must specify the intention to propose the resolution as a special resolution.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting must be decided on a show of hands unless a
poll is validly demanded. A poll on a resolution may be demanded either before a vote on a show
of hands on that resolution or immediately after the result of a show of hands on that resolution is
declared.
A poll on a resolution may be demanded by:
• the chair of the meeting;
• a majority of the directors present at the meeting;
• not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting;
• a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting
rights of all the shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting (excluding any voting
rights attached to any shares in BAT held as treasury shares); or
• a shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote on the resolution
on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total
sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right (excluding any shares in BAT
conferring a right to vote at the meeting which are held as treasury shares).
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person has one vote regardless of the
number of shares held by such shareholder. Every proxy duly appointed by one or more
shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution and present has one vote, except that if the proxy
has been duly appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote and is instructed by one or
7
[[6543924]]
more of those shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it,
or is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote in one way and is given discretion
as to how to vote by one or more others (and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other
way) they have one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
On a poll every shareholder present in person or by duly appointed proxy has one vote for every
share held by the shareholder. A shareholder or their duly appointed proxy entitled to more than
one vote need not use all their votes or cast all the votes they use the same way.
For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend or vote at a general meeting,
BAT may specify in the notice convening the meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the
time fixed for the meeting (not including any part of a day that is not a working day), by which a
person must be entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the joint holder whose name appears first on the register
of shareholders in respect of the joint holding shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of
the other joint holders.
If any shares are issued by BAT that are not fully paid, holders of those shares will not be
permitted to vote at any general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of that class of
shares, either in person or by proxy, unless all amounts presently payable by such holder in
respect of that share have been paid.
There are no limitations under BAT’s articles of association restricting the right of non-UK
resident or foreign owners to hold or vote ordinary shares in BAT.
Transfer of the Shares
A share in certificated form may be transferred by an instrument of transfer which may be in any
usual form or in any other form approved by the directors, executed by or on behalf of the
transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee. A share in
uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the relevant system concerned. The transfer
may not be in favor of more than four transferees.
In their absolute discretion, the directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in
certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share is listed on the Official List of
the Financial Conduct Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking
place on an open and proper basis. The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share
in certificated form (whether fully paid or not) unless the instrument of transfer:
• is lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office of BAT or such other place as the
directors may appoint and is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it
relates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right
of the transferor to make the transfer;
• is in respect of only one class of share; and
• is not in favor of more than four transferees.
8
[[6543924]]
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is
to hold it thereafter in certificated form in any case where BAT is entitled to refuse to register the
transfer under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
If the directors refuse to register a transfer of a share, they shall as soon as practicable and in any
event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with BAT (in the case
of a transfer of a share in certificated form) or the date on which the operator-instruction was
received by BAT (in the case of a transfer of a share in uncertificated form which will be held
thereafter in certificated form) send to the transferee notice of the refusal together with reasons
for the refusal. The directors shall send to the transferee such further information about the
reasons for the refusal to the transferee as the transferee may reasonably request.
No fee shall be charged for the registration of any instrument of transfer or other document or
instruction relating to or affecting the title to any share.
For uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in accordance with the terms of the
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Distribution of Assets on a Winding-up
If BAT is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution and any other
sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders in specie the whole or any part of the
assets of BAT and may, for that purpose, value any assets and determine how the division shall
be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders. The liquidator
may, with the like sanction, vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts
for the benefit of the shareholders as they may with the like sanction determine, but no
shareholder shall be compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
Disclosure of Shareholding Ownership
There are no provisions in BAT’s articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding or
disposing of a certain percentage of BAT’s ordinary shares are required to make disclosure of
their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under statute and regulation.
Untraced Shareholders
BAT is entitled to sell (at any time after becoming entitled to do so) any share held by a
shareholder, or any share to which a person is entitled by transmission of the title of such share
(including in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of the shareholder or otherwise by
operation of law) if:
• for a period of 12 years, no payment for amounts payable in respect of the share sent and
payable in a manner authorized by the articles of association has been cashed or effected
and no communication has been received by BAT from the shareholder or person
concerned;
9
[[6543924]]
• during that period at least three cash dividends (whether interim or final) have become
payable on the share and no such dividend has been claimed by the shareholder or person
concerned;
• BAT has at any time after the expiration of that period sent a notice to the registered
address or last known address of the shareholder or person concerned of its intention to
sell such share and, before sending such notice, BAT has taken such steps as it considers
reasonable in the circumstances to trace the shareholder or other person entitled,
including engaging, if considered appropriate, in relation to such share, a professional
asset reunification company or other tracing agent; and
• BAT has not, during the further period of three months following the date of publication
of sending of the notice referred to above and prior to the sale of the share received any
communication from the member or person concerned.
The net proceeds of sale of any shares as described above shall be forfeited and shall belong to
BAT and BAT will not be obliged to account to the former shareholder or other person
previously entitled to the share, or be liable to such persons in relation to, the proceeds of sale. If
BAT sells a share pursuant to the above, any dividend or other money payable in respect of the
share outstanding at the time of sale shall be forfeited and BAT shall not be obliged to account
to, or be liable in any respect to, the recipient or person who would have been entitled to the
amount.
If, on three consecutive occasions, notices, documents or information sent or supplied to a
shareholder have been returned undelivered, the shareholder shall not be entitled to receive any
subsequent notice, document or information until they have supplied to BAT (or its agent) a new
registered address, or a postal address within the United Kingdom or the Republic of South
Africa, or shall have informed BAT of an electronic address.
Variation of Rights
If at any time the capital of BAT is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to
any class may be varied, either while BAT is a going concern or during or in contemplation of a
winding up in such manner (if any) as may be provided by those rights (depending on the
drafting of those rights, they may be more significant than is required by law) or if there are no
such provisions either with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal
value of the issued shares of that class (not including any treasury shares), or with the approval
of shareholders by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of such shares,
but not otherwise.
To every such separate meeting the provisions of the articles of association relating to general
meetings shall apply, except that the quorum for any such meeting shall be two persons together
holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the
class in question (excluding treasury shares). At an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be one
person holding shares of the class in question (excluding treasury shares) or their proxy.
10
[[6543924]]
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to any class of shares, those rights
shall be deemed not to be varied by the purchase by BAT of any of its own shares or the holding
of such shares in treasury.
Change of Control and Takeovers
BAT is subject to the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, which governs the conduct of
mergers and takeovers in the UK.
An English public limited company such as BAT may be acquired in a number of ways,
including by means of a scheme of arrangement (as defined below) between the company and its
shareholders or by means of a takeover offer.
A scheme of arrangement is a statutory procedure under the UK Companies Act 2006 pursuant
to which the English courts may approve an arrangement between an English company and some
or all of its shareholders. In a scheme of arrangement, the company would make an initial
application to the court to convene a meeting or meetings of its shareholders at which a majority
in number of shareholders representing 75% of the voting rights of the shareholders present and
voting either in person or by proxy at the meeting must agree to the arrangement by which they
will sell their shares in exchange for the consideration being offered by the bidder. If the
shareholders so agree, the company will return to court to request the court to sanction the
arrangement. Upon such a scheme of arrangement becoming effective in accordance with its
terms and the UK Companies Act 2006, it will bind the company and such shareholders.
A takeover offer is an offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of a company (other than
shares which at the date of the offer are already held by the bidder). Under the City Code on
Takeovers and Mergers and in order to compulsorily acquire the shares of dissenting
shareholders, the offer must be made on identical terms to all holders of shares to which the offer
relates. If the bidder, by virtue of acceptances of the offer, acquires or contracts to acquire not
less than 90% in value of the shares to which the offer relates representing not less than 90% of
the voting rights owned by the shares, the UK Companies Act 2006 allows the bidder to give
notice to any non-accepting shareholder that the bidder intends to acquire his, her or its shares
through a compulsory acquisition (also referred to as a squeeze out), and the shares of such
nonaccepting shareholders will be acquired by the bidder six weeks later on the same terms as
the offer, unless the shareholder objects to the English court and the court enters an order that the
bidder is not entitled to acquire the shares or specifying terms of the acquisition different from
those of the offer.
The UK Companies Act 2006 permits a scheme of arrangement or takeover offer to be made
relating only to a particular class or classes of a company’s shares.
As BAT is a UK premium listed company, if it were subject to a takeover bid and the takeover
were structured as a contractual takeover offer, under the UK Listing Rules a bidder would have
to, by virtue of its shareholdings and acceptances of its takeover offer, acquire or agree to acquire
shares carrying 75% of the voting rights of BAT before it could cancel BAT’s listing on the
Main Market of the LSE.
11
[[6543924]]
Where the takeover is by way of a scheme of arrangement, the UK Listing Rules do not impose
any additional rules as regards shareholder approval or the level of acceptances required before
BAT could be delisted, as the scheme procedure provides sufficient protection for shareholders.
There are no provisions in BAT’s articles of association that would have the effect of delaying,
deferring or preventing a takeover, or change of control, of BAT.
Under English law, BAT’s directors have a fiduciary duty to take only those actions that are in
the interests of BAT and any anti-takeover devices employed by the directors in the future, if
any, must accordingly be in the interests of BAT.
However, under the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, if an acquisition of BAT ordinary
shares increases the aggregate holding of an acquirer and persons acting in concert with the
acquirer (i.e., persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding, cooperate to obtain or
consolidate control of a company or to frustrate the successful outcome of an offer for a
company) to shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights in BAT, the acquirer and,
depending on the circumstances, its concert parties, would be required (except with the consent
of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers) to make a cash offer for the outstanding BAT ordinary
shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the BAT ordinary shares by the acquirer
or its concert parties during the previous 12 months. This requirement would also be triggered by
any acquisition of shares by a person holding (together with its concert parties) shares carrying
between 30 and 50% of the voting rights in BAT if the effect of such acquisition were to increase
that person’s percentage of the voting rights.
General Meetings
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held every year within a period of six months
of the day following BAT’s financial year end (which is December 31), at such place or places,
date and time as may be decided by the directors.
Ability to Call General Meetings
The directors may call general meetings. If there are not sufficient directors to form a quorum in
order to call a general meeting, any director may call a general meeting. If there is no director,
any shareholder of BAT may call a general meeting.
The directors are required to call a general meeting if requested by shareholders representing at
least 5% of the paid-up capital of BAT as carries the right of voting at general meetings
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares). Such meeting must be called within 21
days from the date on which the directors become subject to the requirement, and held on a date
not more than 28 days after the date of the notice calling the meeting. A meeting called upon the
request of shareholders may only deal with the business stated in the request by shareholders, or
as proposed by the directors. If the directors fail to call the general meeting requested by the
shareholders, the shareholders who requested the meeting, or any of them representing more than
one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves call a general meeting. Such
meeting must be called for a date not more than three months after the date on which the
directors become subject to the requirement to call a meeting. Any reasonable expenses incurred
12
[[6543924]]
by the shareholders requesting the meeting by reason of the failure of the directors duly to call a
meeting must be reimbursed by the company.
Notice of General Meetings
Pursuant to the UK Companies Act 2006, an annual general meeting and all other general
meetings of BAT must be called by at least 21 clear days’ written notice (the “clear days” rule is
set out in section 360 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and excludes the day of the meeting and
the day that the notice is given). However, the UK Companies Act 2006 allows for this period of
notice for meetings other than annual general meetings to be reduced to 14 clear days’ notice
provided that: (1) the company allows its shareholders to make proxy appointments via a website
(such as one hosted by its share registrars); and (2) shareholders must pass a special resolution at
the annual general meeting every year approving the shortening of the notice period to 14 days.
A special resolution enabling BAT to hold general meetings (other than annual general meetings)
on 14 clear days’ notice was approved at the last annual general meeting held on April 24, 2024.
The notice shall specify the place, the date and the time of meeting and the general nature of the
business to be transacted, and in the case of an annual general meeting shall specify the meeting
as such. Where BAT has given an electronic address in any notice of meeting, any document or
information relating to proceedings at the meeting may be sent by electronic means to that
address, subject to any conditions or limitations specified in the relevant notice of meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the articles of association described above under “—Untraced
shareholders” and to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, notices shall be given to all
shareholders, to all persons entitled to a share in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a
shareholder or otherwise by operation of law and to the BAT directors and to the BAT Group’s
auditors. Any notice to be given to a shareholder may be given by reference to the register of
shareholders as it stands at any time within the period of 21 days before the notice is given; and
no change in the register after that time shall invalidate the giving of the notice.
A shareholder whose registered address is not within the United Kingdom or the Republic of
South Africa shall be entitled to receive any notice, document or information from BAT if they
give BAT an address (not being an electronic address) within the United Kingdom or the
Republic of South Africa at which notices, documents or information may be sent or if the
directors are satisfied that the sending or supplying of such notices, documents or information by
BAT to such address outside of the United Kingdom or the Republic of South Africa would not
result in BAT breaching any applicable law (whether in the United Kingdom, Republic of South
Africa, or elsewhere) or result, directly or indirectly, in BAT being required to comply with
additional filing or other regulatory requirements in the United Kingdom, the Republic of South
Africa, or any other jurisdiction.
Where, by reason of any suspension or curtailment of postal services, BAT is unable effectively
to give notice of a general meeting or any meeting of the holders of any class of shares, the
directors may decide that the only persons to whom notice of the affected general meeting must
be sent are: the directors; BAT’s auditors; those shareholders to whom notice to convene the
general meeting can validly be sent by electronic means and those shareholders to whom
notification as to the availability of the notice of meeting on a website can validly be sent by
13
[[6543924]]
electronic means. In any case, BAT shall also: (a) advertise the general meeting in at least two
national newspapers published in the United Kingdom; and (b) if at least seven clear days before
the meeting the posting of notices again becomes practicable, send or supply a confirmatory
copy of the notice to shareholders who were not sent the notice but would (but for this provision)
have been entitled to receive the notice.
Quorum
No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum is present. Two persons
entitled to vote upon the business to be transacted, each being a shareholder or a proxy for a
shareholder or a duly authorized representative of the corporation which is a shareholder
(including for this purpose two persons who are proxies or corporate representatives of the same
shareholder), shall be a quorum.
Attendance at General Meetings
All shareholders may attend, speak and vote at BAT general meetings (including annual general
meetings). A shareholder is entitled to appoint another person as their proxy to exercise all or
any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of BAT. The appointment of a
proxy shall be deemed also to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll. Delivery
of an appointment of proxy shall not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting at the
meeting or at any adjournment of it. A proxy need not be a shareholder. A shareholder may
appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by them. An appointment of proxy
shall be in writing in any usual form or in any other form which the directors may approve and
shall be executed by or on behalf of the appointor which in the case of a corporation may be
either under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorized officer or attorney or other
person duly authorized for that purpose. Subject to the provisions of the UK Companies Act
2006, any corporation (other than BAT itself) which is a shareholder of BAT may, by resolution
of its directors or other governing body, authorize such person(s) to act as its representative(s) at
any meeting of BAT, or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares. BAT may
require such person(s) to produce a certified copy of the resolution before permitting them to
exercise their powers. The directors may (and shall if and to the extent that BAT is required to do
so by the UK Companies Act 2006) allow an appointment of proxy to be sent or supplied in
electronic form subject to any conditions or limitations as the directors may specify.
The directors or the chair of the meeting may direct that any person wishing to attend any
general meeting should submit to and comply with such searches or other security arrangements
as they or the chair of the meeting consider appropriate in the circumstances. The directors or the
chair of the meeting may in their absolute discretion refuse entry to, or eject from, any general
meeting any person who refuses to submit to a search or otherwise comply with such security
arrangements.
The directors or the chair of the meeting may take such action, give such direction or put in place
such checks or arrangements as they or the chair of the meeting consider appropriate to secure
the health and safety of the people attending the meeting or to promote the orderly conduct of the
business of the meeting. Any decision of the chair of the meeting on matters of procedure or
14
[[6543924]]
matters arising incidentally from the business of the meeting, and any determination by the chair
of the meeting as to whether a matter is of such a nature, shall be final.
The directors may make arrangements for simultaneous attendance and participation, by
electronic means or otherwise, allowing persons not present together at the same place to attend,
participate and vote at the meeting by using a satellite meeting place or places, including in
particular if the place of meeting specified in the notice of meeting appears to the chair to be
inadequate to accommodate all persons entitled and wishing to attend. The arrangements for
simultaneous attendance and participation at any place at which persons are participating may
include arrangements for controlling or regulating the level of attendance at any particular venue
provided that such arrangements shall operate so that all shareholders and proxies wishing to
attend the meeting are able to attend at one or other of the venues.
DESCRIPTION OF BAT AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES
Citibank, N.A. is the depositary bank for the BAT ADSs. Citibank’s depositary offices are
located at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013. American Depositary Shares are
frequently referred to as ADSs and represent ownership interests in securities that are on deposit
with the depositary bank. ADSs may be represented by certificates that are commonly known as
“American Depositary Receipts” or “ADRs.” The depositary bank typically appoints a custodian
to safekeep the securities on deposit. In this case, the custodian is Citibank, N.A., London
Branch, located at Citigroup Centre, Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5LB England.
BAT has appointed Citibank as depositary bank pursuant to the deposit agreement. A copy of the
second amended and restated deposit agreement is on file with the SEC under cover of a
Registration Statement on Form F-6EF. A copy of the deposit agreement and each amendment
thereto may be obtained from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549 and from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Please refer to
Registration Numbers 333-221983 and 333-266484 when retrieving such copy.
The following summarizes the material terms of the BAT ADSs and the material rights of
owners of BAT ADSs. This summary does not purport to be complete and may not contain all of
the important information about the BAT ADSs. The rights and obligations of an owner of BAT
ADSs will be determined by reference to the terms of the deposit agreement and not by this
summary. The portions of this summary description that are italicized describe matters that may
be relevant to the ownership of BAT ADSs but that may not be contained in the deposit
agreement.
Each BAT ADS represents the right to receive, and to exercise the beneficial ownership interests
in, one BAT ordinary share that is on deposit with the depositary bank and/or custodian. A BAT
ADS also represents the right to receive, and to exercise the beneficial interests in, any other
property (including cash) received by the depositary bank or the custodian on behalf of the
owners of BAT ADSs but that has not been distributed to the owners of BAT ADSs because of
legal restrictions or practical considerations. The BAT ordinary shares deposited with the
depositary bank and/or the custodian and any and all other securities, property and cash held by
the depositary bank and/or custodian in respect thereof are referred to as the deposited securities.
BAT and the depositary bank may agree to change the ADS-to-BAT ordinary share ratio by
15
[[6543924]]
amending the deposit agreement. This amendment may give rise to, or change, the depositary
bank services fees payable by BAT ADS owners. The custodian, the depositary bank and their
respective nominees will hold all deposited securities for the benefit of the holders (i.e., the
persons in whose name the BAT ADSs are registered on the books of the depositary bank) and
beneficial owners of BAT ADSs. The deposited securities do not constitute the proprietary assets
of the depositary bank, the custodian or their nominees. Beneficial ownership in the deposited
securities will under the terms of the deposit agreement be vested in the beneficial owners of the
BAT ADSs. The depositary bank, the custodian and their respective nominees will be the record
holders of the deposited securities represented by the BAT ADSs for the benefit of the holders
and beneficial owners of the corresponding BAT ADSs. A beneficial owner of BAT ADSs may
or may not be the holder of BAT ADSs. Beneficial owners of BAT ADSs will be able to receive
any benefit in, and to exercise beneficial ownership interests in, the deposited securities only
through the registered holders of the BAT ADSs, the registered holders of the BAT ADSs (on
behalf of the applicable BAT ADS owners) only through the depositary bank, and the depositary
bank (on behalf of the owners of the corresponding BAT ADSs) directly, or indirectly, through
the custodian or their respective nominees, in each case upon the terms of the deposit agreement.
The depositary bank and BAT may deem and treat the registered holder of an ADS as the
absolute owner of such ADS for all purposes and neither the depositary bank nor BAT will have
any obligation or be subject to any liability under the deposit agreement or any ADR to any
holder or beneficial owner of ADSs unless, in the case of a holder of ADSs, such holder is the
registered holder or, in the case of a beneficial owner, such beneficial owner or its representative
is the registered holder.
Owners of BAT ADSs become party to the deposit agreement and therefore are bound to its
terms and to the terms of any ADR that represents such BAT ADSs. The deposit agreement and
the ADRs specify the rights and obligations of BAT as well as the rights and obligations of
owners of BAT ADSs and those of the depositary bank. BAT ADS holders appoint the
depositary bank to act on their behalf in certain circumstances.
In addition, applicable laws and regulations may require BAT ADS holders to satisfy reporting
requirements and obtain regulatory approvals in certain circumstances. BAT ADS holders are
solely responsible for complying with such reporting requirements and obtaining such approvals.
None of the depositary bank, the custodian, BAT or any of their respective agents or affiliates
shall be required to take any actions whatsoever on behalf of BAT ADS holders to satisfy such
reporting requirements or obtain such regulatory approvals under applicable laws and
regulations.
BAT will not treat an owner of BAT ADSs as one of its shareholders, and BAT ADS holders
will not have direct shareholder rights. The depositary bank will hold the shareholder rights
attached to the BAT ordinary shares underlying the BAT ADSs. Owners of BAT ADSs will be
able to exercise the shareholders rights for the BAT ordinary shares represented by the BAT
ADSs through the depositary bank only to the extent contemplated in the deposit agreement. To
exercise any shareholder rights not contemplated in the deposit agreement a BAT ADS owner
must arrange for the cancellation of their BAT ADSs and become a direct shareholder of BAT.
An owner of BAT ADSs may hold its BAT ADSs either by means of an ADR registered in its
name, through a brokerage or safekeeping account, or through an account established by the
16
[[6543924]]
depositary bank in its name reflecting the registration of uncertificated BAT ADSs directly on
the books of the depositary bank (commonly referred to as the direct registration system or
DRS). The direct registration system reflects the uncertificated (book-entry) registration of
ownership of BAT ADSs by the depositary bank. Under the direct registration system, ownership
of BAT ADSs is evidenced by periodic statements issued by the depositary bank to the holders
of the BAT ADSs. The direct registration system includes automated transfers between the
depositary bank and the Depositary Trust Company, referred to as DTC. If a BAT ADS holder
decides to hold BAT ADSs through a brokerage or safekeeping account, the holder must rely on
the procedures of the broker or bank to assert its rights as BAT ADS owner. Banks and brokers
typically hold securities such as the BAT ADSs through clearing and settlement systems such as
DTC. The procedures of such clearing and settlement systems may limit a BAT ADS holder’s
ability to exercise its rights as an owner of BAT ADSs. All BAT ADSs held through DTC will
be registered in the name of a nominee of DTC.
The registration of the BAT ordinary shares in the name of the depositary bank or the custodian
shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, vest in the depositary bank or the
custodian the record ownership in the applicable BAT ordinary shares with the beneficial
ownership rights and interests in such BAT ordinary shares being at all times vested with the
beneficial owners of the BAT ADSs representing the BAT ordinary shares. The depositary bank
or the custodian shall at all times be entitled to exercise the beneficial ownership rights in all
deposited securities, in each case only on behalf of the holders and beneficial owners of the BAT
ADSs representing the deposited securities.
Dividends and Distributions
Holders of BAT ADSs generally have the right to receive the distributions, including dividends,
BAT makes on the deposited securities. Receipt of these distributions may be limited, however,
by practical considerations and legal limitations. Holders of BAT ADSs will receive such
distributions under the terms of the deposit agreement in proportion to the number of BAT ADSs
held as of the specified record date, after deduction of the applicable fees, taxes and expenses.
Distributions of Cash
Whenever BAT makes a cash distribution, including any cash dividend, on any deposited
securities, it will deposit the funds with the custodian. Upon receipt of confirmation of the
deposit of the requisite funds, the depositary bank will arrange for the funds received in a
currency other than U.S. Dollars to be converted into U.S. Dollars and for the distribution of the
U.S. Dollars to the holders, subject to the laws and regulations of England and Wales.
The conversion into U.S. Dollars will take place only if practicable and if the U.S. Dollars are
transferable to the United States. The depositary bank will apply the same method for
distributing the proceeds of the sale of any property (such as undistributed rights) held by the
custodian in respect of any deposited securities. For further information regarding the conversion
of funds into U.S. Dollars, see “—Foreign Currency Conversion”.
The distribution of cash will be made net of the fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges
payable by holders under the terms of the deposit agreement. The depositary bank will hold any
17
[[6543924]]
cash amounts it is unable to distribute in a non-interest bearing account for the benefit of the
applicable holders and beneficial owners of BAT ADSs until the distribution can be effected or
the funds that the depositary bank holds must be escheated as unclaimed property in accordance
with the laws of the relevant states of the United States.
Distributions of BAT Ordinary Shares
Whenever BAT makes a free distribution, including any dividend, of BAT ordinary shares on the
deposited securities, it will deposit the applicable number of BAT ordinary shares with the
custodian. Upon receipt of confirmation of such deposit, the depositary bank will either
distribute to holders new BAT ADSs representing the BAT ordinary shares deposited or modify
the ADS-to-BAT ordinary share ratio, in which case each BAT ADS held will represent rights
and interests in the additional BAT ordinary shares so deposited. Only whole new BAT ADSs
will be distributed. Fractional entitlements will be sold and the proceeds of such sale will be
distributed as in the case of a cash distribution.
The distribution of new BAT ADSs or the modification of the ADS-to-BAT ordinary share ratio
upon a distribution of BAT ordinary shares will be made net of the fees, expenses, taxes and
governmental charges payable by holders under the terms of the deposit agreement. In order to
pay such taxes or governmental charges, the depositary bank may sell all or a portion of the new
BAT ordinary shares so distributed.
No such distribution of new BAT ADSs will be made if it would violate a law (e.g., the U.S.
securities laws). If the depositary bank does not distribute new BAT ADSs as described above, it
may sell the BAT ordinary shares received upon the terms described in the deposit agreement
and will distribute the proceeds of the sale as in the case of a distribution of cash.
Distributions of Rights
Whenever BAT intends to distribute to the holders of BAT ordinary shares rights to subscribe for
additional BAT ordinary shares, it will give prior notice to the depositary bank and will assist the
depositary bank in determining whether it is lawful and reasonably practicable to distribute rights
to subscribe for additional BAT ADSs to holders.
The depositary bank will establish procedures to distribute rights to subscribe for additional BAT
ADSs to holders and to enable such holders to exercise such rights if it is lawful and reasonably
practicable to make the rights available to holders of BAT ADSs, and if BAT provides all of the
documentation contemplated in the deposit agreement (such as opinions to address the
lawfulness of the transaction). BAT ADS holders may have to pay fees, expenses, taxes and
other governmental charges to subscribe for the new BAT ADSs upon the exercise of their
rights. The depositary bank is not obligated to establish procedures to facilitate the distribution
and exercise by holders of rights to subscribe for new BAT ordinary shares other than in the
form of BAT ADSs.
The depositary bank will not distribute the rights to BAT ADS holders if:
• BAT does not timely request that the rights be distributed to BAT ADS holders;
18
[[6543924]]
• BAT requests that the rights not be distributed to BAT ADS holders;
• BAT fails to deliver satisfactory documents to the depositary bank; or
• it is not reasonably practicable to distribute the rights.
The depositary bank, upon consultation with BAT, will sell the rights that are not exercised or
not distributed if such sale is lawful and reasonably practicable. The proceeds of such sale, net of
fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges payable by holders under the terms of the deposit
agreement, will be distributed to holders as in the case of a cash distribution. If the depositary
bank is unable to sell the rights, it will allow the rights to lapse.
Elective Distributions
Whenever BAT intends to make a distribution, including any dividend, on BAT ordinary shares
payable at the election of shareholders either in cash or in additional BAT ordinary shares, it will
give prior notice thereof to the depositary bank and will indicate whether it wishes the elective
distribution to be made available to BAT ADS holders. In such case, BAT will assist the
depositary bank in determining whether such distribution is lawful and reasonably practicable.
The depositary bank will make the election available to BAT ADS holders only if it is
reasonably practicable and if BAT has provided all of the documentation contemplated in the
deposit agreement. In such case, the depositary bank will establish procedures to enable BAT
ADS holders to elect to receive either cash or additional BAT ADSs, in each case as described in
the deposit agreement.
If the election is not made available to BAT ADS holders, they will receive either cash or
additional BAT ADSs, depending on what a shareholder in England and Wales would receive
upon failing to make an election, as more fully described in the deposit agreement.
Other Distributions
Whenever BAT intends to distribute to the holders of BAT ordinary shares property other than
cash, BAT ordinary shares or rights to subscribe for additional BAT ordinary shares, it will
notify the depositary bank in advance and will indicate whether it wishes such distribution to be
made to BAT ADS holders. If so, BAT will assist the depositary bank in determining whether
such distribution to holders is lawful and reasonably practicable.
If it is reasonably practicable to distribute such property to BAT ADS holders and if BAT
provides to the depositary bank all of the documentation contemplated in the deposit agreement,
the depositary bank will distribute the property to the holders in a manner it deems practicable.
The distribution will be made net of fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges payable by
holders under the terms of the deposit agreement. In order to pay such taxes and governmental
charges, the depositary bank may sell all or a portion of the property received.
The depositary bank will not distribute the property to BAT ADS holders and will sell the
property if:
19
[[6543924]]
• BAT does not request that the property be distributed to BAT ADS holders or if BAT
requests that the property not be distributed to BAT ADS holders;
• BAT does not deliver satisfactory documents to the depositary bank; or
• the depositary bank determines that all or a portion of the distribution to BAT ADS
holders is not reasonably practicable.
The proceeds of such a sale will be distributed to holders as in the case of a cash distribution.
Redemption
Whenever BAT decides to redeem any of the deposited securities held by the custodian, it will
notify the depositary bank in advance. If it is practicable and if BAT provides all of the
documentation contemplated in the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will provide notice of
the redemption to the holders.
The custodian will be instructed to surrender the shares being redeemed against payment of the
applicable redemption price for deposited securities. The depositary bank will convert any
redemption funds received in a currency other than U.S. Dollars into U.S. Dollars upon the terms
of the deposit agreement and will establish procedures to enable holders to receive the net
proceeds from the redemption upon surrender of their BAT ADSs to the depositary bank. BAT
ADS holders may have to pay fees, expenses, taxes and other governmental charges upon the
redemption of their BAT ADSs. If less than all BAT ADSs are being redeemed, the BAT ADSs
to be retired will be selected by lot or on a pro rata basis, as the depositary bank may determine.
Changes Affecting Deposited Securities
The deposited securities represented by BAT ADSs may change from time to time. For example,
there may be a change in nominal or par value, split-up, cancellation, consolidation or any other
reclassification of such deposited securities or a recapitalization, reorganization, merger,
consolidation or sale of assets of BAT.
If any such change were to occur, BAT ADSs would, to the extent permitted by law and the
deposit agreement, represent the right to receive the property received or exchanged in respect of
the deposited securities. In such circumstances, the depositary bank may, with BAT’s approval
and if BAT requests, deliver new BAT ADSs, amend the deposit agreement, the ADRs and the
applicable Registration Statement(s) on Form F-6, call for the exchange of existing BAT ADSs
for new BAT ADSs and take any other actions that are appropriate to reflect as to the BAT ADSs
the change affecting the BAT ordinary shares. If the depositary bank may not lawfully distribute
such property, the depositary bank may, with BAT’s approval and if BAT requests, sell such
property and distribute the net proceeds as in the case of a cash distribution.
Issuance of BAT ADSs upon Deposit of BAT Ordinary Shares
The depositary bank may create BAT ADSs on behalf of a BAT ADS holder if it or its broker
deposits BAT ordinary shares with the custodian. The depositary bank will deliver these BAT
ADSs to the person indicated by the BAT ADS holder only after any applicable issuance fees
20
[[6543924]]
and any charges and taxes payable for the transfer of the BAT ordinary shares to the custodian
are paid. A BAT ADS holder’s ability to deposit BAT ordinary shares and receive BAT ADSs
may be limited by United States and England and Wales legal considerations applicable at the
time of deposit.
The issuance of BAT ADSs may be delayed until the depositary bank or the custodian receives
confirmation that all required approvals have been given and that the BAT ordinary shares have
been duly transferred to the custodian. The depositary bank will only issue BAT ADSs in whole
numbers.
When BAT ADS holders make a deposit of BAT ordinary shares, they will be responsible for
transferring good and valid title to the depositary bank. As such, they will be deemed to represent
and warrant that:
• the BAT ordinary shares are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, non-assessable
and legally obtained;
• all preemptive (and similar) rights, if any, with respect to such BAT ordinary shares have
been validly waived or exercised;
• they are duly authorized to deposit the BAT ordinary shares;
• the BAT ordinary shares presented for deposit are free and clear of any lien,
encumbrance, security interest, charge, mortgage or adverse claim, and are not, and the
BAT ADSs issuable upon such deposit will not be, “restricted securities” (as defined in
the deposit agreement); and
• the BAT ordinary shares presented for deposit have not been stripped of any rights or
entitlements.
If any of the representations or warranties are incorrect in any way, BAT and the depositary bank
may, at the holder’s cost and expense, take any and all actions necessary to correct the
consequences of the misrepresentations.
Transfer, Combination and Split Up of ADRs
ADR holders will be entitled to transfer, combine or split up their ADRs and the BAT ADSs
evidenced thereby. For transfers of ADRs, they will have to surrender the ADRs to be transferred
to the depositary bank and also must:
• ensure that the surrendered ADR is properly endorsed or otherwise in proper form for
transfer;
• provide any transfer stamps required by the State of New York or the United States; and
• pay all applicable fees, charges, expenses, taxes and other government charges payable
by ADR holders pursuant to the terms of the deposit agreement and applicable law, upon
the transfer of ADRs.
21
[[6543924]]
To have ADRs either combined or split up, BAT ADS holders must surrender the ADRs in
question to the depositary bank with a request to have them combined or split up, and they must
pay all applicable fees, charges, expenses, taxes and other government charges payable by ADR
holders pursuant to the terms of the deposit agreement and applicable law, upon a combination or
split up of ADRs.
The depositary bank may require a holder to provide proof of identity and genuineness of any
signature and such other documents as the depositary bank may deem appropriate before it will
transfer, combine or split up ADRs and the BAT ADSs evidenced thereby.
BAT may restrict transfers of BAT ordinary shares where such transfer might result in ownership
of BAT ordinary shares exceeding limits imposed by applicable law or the articles of association
of BAT. BAT may also restrict, in such manner as it deems appropriate, transfers of BAT ADSs
where such transfer may result in the total number of BAT ordinary shares represented by BAT
ADSs owned by a single holder or beneficial owner to exceed any such limits. BAT may, in its
sole discretion but subject to applicable law, instruct the depositary bank to take action with
respect to the ownership interest of any holder or beneficial owner in excess of such limits,
including the imposition of restrictions on the transfer of BAT ADSs, the removal or limitation
of voting rights or mandatory sale or disposition on behalf of a holder or beneficial owner of the
BAT ordinary shares represented by the BAT ADSs held by such holder or beneficial owner in
excess of such limitations, if and to the extent such disposition is permitted by applicable law
and the articles of association of BAT.
Withdrawal of Deposited Securities upon Cancellation of BAT ADSs
Holders will be entitled to present their BAT ADSs to the depositary bank for cancellation and
then receive the corresponding number of underlying deposited securities at the custodian’s
offices. The ability to withdraw the deposited securities held in respect of the BAT ADSs may be
limited by United States and England and Wales legal considerations applicable at the time of
withdrawal. In order to withdraw the deposited securities represented by BAT ADSs, holders
will be required to pay to the depositary bank the fees for cancellation of BAT ADSs and any
charges and taxes payable upon the transfer of the deposited securities. BAT ADS holders
assume the risk for delivery of all funds and securities upon withdrawal. Once canceled, the BAT
ADSs will not have any rights under the deposit agreement.
If holders hold BAT ADSs registered in their name, the depositary bank may ask them to provide
proof of identity and genuineness of any signature and such other documents as the depositary
bank may deem appropriate before it will cancel their BAT ADSs. The withdrawal of the
deposited securities represented by BAT ADSs may be delayed until the depositary bank
receives satisfactory evidence of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Please
keep in mind that the depositary bank will only accept BAT ADSs for cancellation that represent
a whole number of deposited securities.
BAT ADS holders will have the right to withdraw the deposited securities represented by their
BAT ADSs at any time except for:
22
[[6543924]]
• temporary delays that may arise because (1) the transfer books for the BAT ordinary
shares or BAT ADSs are closed, or (2) the deposit of BAT ordinary shares in connection
with voting at a shareholders’ meeting or a payment of dividends;
• obligations to pay fees, taxes and similar charges; and
• restrictions imposed because of laws or regulations applicable to BAT ADSs or the
withdrawal of the deposited securities.
The deposit agreement may not be modified to impair the right to withdraw the securities
represented by BAT ADSs except to comply with mandatory provisions of law.
Voting Rights
Holders generally have the right under the deposit agreement to instruct the depositary bank to
exercise the voting rights for the BAT ordinary shares represented by their BAT ADSs. For more
information on the voting rights of holders of BAT ordinary shares see “Description of BAT
Ordinary Shares—Voting Rights”.
At BAT’s request, the depositary bank will distribute to BAT ADS holders any notice of
shareholders’ meeting (or solicitation of consent or proxy) timely received from BAT together
with information explaining how to instruct the depositary bank to exercise the voting rights of
the deposited securities. In lieu of distributing such materials, the depositary bank may distribute
to holders of BAT ADSs instructions on how to retrieve such materials upon request.
If the depositary bank timely receives voting instructions from a holder of BAT ADSs, it will, to
the extent practicable and permitted under applicable law, the deposit agreement and the BAT
articles of association, endeavor to vote the deposited securities (in person or by proxy)
represented by the holder’s BAT ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions as follows:
• in the event of voting by show of hands, the depositary bank will vote or cause the
custodian to vote all BAT ordinary shares held on deposit at that time in accordance with
the voting instructions received from a majority of holders of BAT ADSs who provide
timely voting instructions; or
Deposited securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. The
ability of the depositary bank to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and
legal limitations and the terms of the deposited securities. BAT cannot assure holders that they
will receive voting materials in time to enable them to return voting instructions to the depositary
bank in a timely manner.
• in the event of voting by poll, the depositary bank will vote or cause the custodian to vote
the BAT ordinary shares held on deposit in accordance with the voting instructions
received from the holders of BAT ADSs giving instructions.
23
[[6543924]]
Reports
The depositary bank will make available for inspection by BAT ADS holders at its principal
office any reports and communications, including any proxy soliciting materials, received from
BAT which are both (a) received by the depositary bank, the custodian, or the nominee of either
of them as the holder of the deposited securities and (b) made generally available to the holders
of such deposited securities by BAT.
Fees and Charges
BAT ADS holders will be required to pay the following fees to the depositary bank under the
terms of the deposit agreement:
Service Fees
• Issuance of BAT ADSs upon deposit of Up to U.S. $0.05 per BAT ADS issued(1)
BAT ordinary shares (excluding issuances
as a result of distributions of shares
described below)
• Cancellation of BAT ADSs Up to U.S. $0.05 per BAT ADS surrendered(1)
• Distribution of cash dividends or other cash Up to U.S. $0.05 per BAT ADS held(2)
distributions (i.e., sale of rights and other
entitlements)
• Distribution of BAT ADSs pursuant to (1) Up to U.S. $0.05 per BAT ADS held
stock dividends or other free stock
distributions, or (2) exercise of rights to
purchase additional BAT ADSs
• Depositary bank services Up to U.S. $0.05 per BAT ADS held
(1) Under the terms of a separate agreement between BAT and the depositary bank, the
depositary bank has agreed to waive the fees that would otherwise be payable in connection
with the issuance of BAT ADSs upon deposit of BAT ordinary shares and the cancellation
of BAT ADSs and corresponding withdrawal of BAT ordinary shares, in each case by BAT
or any of its affiliates, officers, directors or employees. The terms of this separate agreement
may be amended at any time by BAT and the depositary bank.
(2) While under the deposit agreement cash dividends paid in respect of BAT ADSs are subject
to a fee of up to $0.05 per BAT ADS payable to the depositary bank, under the terms of the
separate agreement between BAT and the depositary bank referred to above, such dividends
are instead subject to a fee of up to $0.04 per BAT ADS per year (a fee of $0.01 per
dividend based on the current distribution of four quarterly cash dividends per year). Under
such separate agreement, this dividend fee may not be varied by the depositary bank without
the consent of BAT.
24
[[6543924]]
BAT ADS holders will also be responsible to pay certain charges such as:
• taxes (including applicable interest and penalties) and other governmental charges;
• the registration fees as may from time to time be in effect for the registration of BAT
ordinary shares or other deposited securities on the share register and applicable to
transfers of BAT ordinary shares or other deposited securities to or from the name of the
custodian, the depositary bank or any nominees upon the making of deposits and
withdrawals, respectively;
• certain cable, telex and facsimile transmission and delivery expenses;
• the expenses and charges incurred by the depositary bank in the conversion of foreign
currency;
• the fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank in connection with compliance
with exchange control regulations and other regulatory requirements applicable to BAT
ordinary shares, or other deposited securities, BAT ADSs and ADRs; and
• the fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank, the custodian, or any nominee in
connection with the servicing or delivery of deposited securities.
ADS fees and charges payable upon (1) the issuance of BAT ADSs, and (2) the cancellation of
BAT ADSs are charged to the person to whom the BAT ADSs are issued (in the case of BAT
ADS issuances) and to the person whose BAT ADSs are canceled (in the case of BAT ADS
cancellations). In the case of BAT ADSs issued by the depositary bank into DTC, the BAT ADS
issuance and cancellation fees and charges may be deducted from distributions made through
DTC, and may be charged to the DTC participant(s) receiving the BAT ADSs being issued or the
DTC participant(s) holding the BAT ADSs being canceled, as the case may be, on behalf of the
beneficial owner(s) and will be charged by the DTC participant(s) to the account of the
applicable beneficial owner(s) in accordance with the procedures and practices of the DTC
participants as in effect at the time. ADS fees and charges in respect of distributions and the
depositary bank services fee are charged to the holders as of the applicable ADS record date. In
the case of distributions of cash, the amount of the applicable ADS fees and charges is deducted
from the funds being distributed. In the case of (1) distributions other than cash and (2) the
depositary bank services fee, holders as of the ADS record date will be invoiced for the amount
of the ADS fees and charges and such ADS fees and charges may be deducted from distributions
made to holders of BAT ADSs. For BAT ADSs held through DTC, the ADS fees and charges for
distributions other than cash and the depositary bank services fee may be deducted from
distributions made through DTC, and may be charged to the DTC participants in accordance
with the procedures and practices prescribed by DTC and the DTC participants in turn charge the
amount of such ADS fees and charges to the beneficial owners for whom they hold BAT ADSs.
In the event of refusal to pay the depositary bank’s fees and charges, the depositary bank may,
under the terms of the deposit agreement, refuse the requested service until payment is received
or may set off the amount of the depositary bank’s fees and charges from any distribution to be
made to the BAT ADS holder. Note that the fees and charges holders may be required to pay
25
[[6543924]]
may vary over time and may be changed by BAT and by the depositary bank (as described in “—
Amendments and Termination” below). Prior notice of such changes will be provided. The
depositary bank may reimburse BAT for certain expenses incurred by it in respect of the ADR
program, by making available a portion of the ADS fees charged in respect of the ADR program
or otherwise, upon such terms and conditions as BAT and the depositary bank agree from time to
time.
Amendments and Termination
BAT may agree with the depositary bank to modify the deposit agreement at any time without
consent of BAT ADS holders. BAT must give holders 30 days’ prior notice of any modifications
that would materially prejudice any of their substantial rights under the deposit agreement. BAT
will not consider to be materially prejudicial to holders’ substantial rights any modifications or
supplements that are reasonably necessary for the BAT ADSs to be registered under the
Securities Act or to be eligible for book-entry settlement, in each case without imposing or
increasing the fees and charges they are required to pay. In addition, BAT may not be able to
provide holders with prior notice of any modifications or supplements that are required to
accommodate compliance with applicable provisions of law.
BAT ADS holders will be bound by the modifications to the deposit agreement if they continue
to hold their ADSs after the modifications to the deposit agreement become effective. The
deposit agreement cannot be amended to prevent holders from withdrawing the deposited
securities represented by their BAT ADSs (except as permitted by law).
BAT has the right to direct the depositary bank to terminate the deposit agreement. Similarly, the
depositary bank may in certain circumstances on its own initiative terminate the deposit
agreement. In either case, the depositary bank must give notice to the holders at least 30 days
before termination. Until termination, BAT ADS holders’ rights under the deposit agreement will
be unaffected.
After termination, the depositary bank will continue to collect distributions received (but will not
distribute any such property until a holder requests the cancellation of BAT ADSs) and may sell
deposited securities. After the sale, the depositary bank will hold the proceeds from such sale and
any other funds then held for the holders of BAT ADSs in a non-interest bearing account. At that
point, the depositary bank will have no further obligations to holders other than to account for
the funds then held for the holders of BAT ADSs still outstanding (after deduction of applicable
fees, taxes and expenses).
Books of Depositary
The depositary bank will maintain BAT ADS holder records at its depositary office. BAT ADS
holders may inspect such records at such office during regular business hours but solely for the
purpose of communicating with other holders in the interest of business matters relating to the
BAT ADSs and the deposit agreement.
The depositary bank will maintain in New York facilities to record and process the issuance,
cancellation, combination, split-up and transfer of BAT ADSs. These facilities may be closed
from time to time, to the extent not prohibited by law.
26
[[6543924]]
Limitations on Obligations and Liabilities
The deposit agreement limits the obligations of BAT and the depositary bank’s obligations to
BAT ADS holders. In particular:
• BAT and the depositary bank are obligated only to take the actions specifically stated in
the deposit agreement and to do so without negligence or bad faith;
• the depositary bank disclaims any liability for any failure to carry out voting instructions,
for any manner in which a vote is cast or for the effect of any vote, provided it acts in
good faith and in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement;
• the depositary bank disclaims any liability for any failure to determine the lawfulness or
practicality of any action, for the content of any document forwarded to you on BAT’s
behalf or for the accuracy of any translation of such a document, for the investment risks
associated with investing in BAT ordinary shares, for the validity or worth of the BAT
ordinary shares, for any tax consequences that result from the ownership of BAT ADSs,
for the creditworthiness of any third party, for allowing any rights to lapse under the
terms of the deposit agreement, for the timeliness of any notices from BAT or for BAT’s
failure to give notice;
• BAT and the depositary bank will not be obligated to perform any act that is inconsistent
with the terms of the deposit agreement;
• BAT and the depositary bank disclaim any liability if BAT or the depositary bank are
prevented or forbidden from or subject to any civil or criminal penalty or restraint on
account of, or delayed in, doing or performing any act or thing required by the terms of
the deposit agreement, by reason of any provision, present or future of any law or
regulation, or by reason of present or future provision of any provision of the BAT
articles of association, or any provision of or governing the deposited securities, or by
reason of any act of God or war or other circumstances beyond their control;
• BAT and the depositary bank disclaim any liability by reason of any exercise of, or
failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in the deposit agreement or in the BAT
articles of association or in any provisions of or governing deposited securities;
• BAT and the depositary bank further disclaim any liability for any action or inaction in
reliance on the advice or information received from legal counsel, accountants, any
person presenting ordinary shares for deposit, any holder of BAT ADSs or authorized
representatives thereof, or any other person believed by either BAT or the depositary
bank in good faith to be competent to give such advice or information;
• BAT and the depositary bank also disclaim liability for the inability by a holder to benefit
from any distribution, offering, right or other benefit that is made available to holders of
deposited securities but is not, under the terms of the deposit agreement, made available
to BAT ADS holders;
27
[[6543924]]
• BAT and the depositary bank may rely without any liability upon any written notice,
request or other document believed to be genuine and to have been signed or presented
by the proper parties;
• BAT and the depositary bank also disclaim liability for any consequential or punitive
damages for any breach of the terms of the deposit agreement; and
• no disclaimer of any Securities Act liability is intended by any provision of the deposit
agreement.
Taxes
BAT ADS holders are responsible for the taxes and other governmental charges payable on the
BAT ADSs and other deposited securities represented by the BAT ADSs. BAT, the depositary
bank and the custodian may deduct from any distribution the taxes and governmental charges
payable by holders and may sell any and all property on deposit to pay the taxes and
governmental charges payable by holders. Holders will be liable for any deficiency if the sale
proceeds do not cover the taxes that are due.
The depositary bank may refuse to issue BAT ADSs, to deliver, transfer, split and combine
ADRs or to release deposited securities until all taxes and charges are paid by the applicable
holder. The depositary bank and the custodian may take reasonable administrative actions to
obtain tax refunds and reduced tax withholding for any distributions on behalf of a BAT ADS
holder. However, holders may be required to provide to the depositary bank and to the custodian
proof of taxpayer status and residence and such other information as the depositary bank and the
custodian may require to fulfill legal obligations. BAT ADS holders are required to indemnify
BAT, the depositary bank and the custodian for any claims with respect to taxes based on any tax
benefit obtained for them.
Foreign Currency Conversion
The depositary bank will arrange for the conversion of all foreign currency received into U.S.
Dollars if such conversion is practical, and it will distribute the U.S. Dollars in accordance with
the terms of the deposit agreement. BAT ADS holders may have to pay fees and expenses
incurred in converting foreign currency, such as fees and expenses incurred in complying with
currency exchange controls and other governmental requirements.
If the conversion of foreign currency is not practical or lawful, or if any required approvals are
denied or not obtainable at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period, the depositary bank
may take the following actions in its discretion:
• convert the foreign currency to the extent practical and lawful and distribute the U.S.
Dollars to the holders for whom the conversion and distribution is lawful and practical;
• distribute the foreign currency to holders for whom the distribution is lawful and
practical; or
• hold the foreign currency (without liability for interest) for the applicable holders.
28
[[6543924]]
Governing Law
The deposit agreement and the ADRs are governed by the laws of the State of New York. The
rights of holders of BAT ordinary shares (including BAT ordinary shares represented by BAT
ADSs) are governed by the laws of England and Wales and the BAT articles of association. For
further information regarding the material terms of the BAT ordinary shares, see “Description of
BAT Ordinary Shares”.
C. Description of the Notes Issued Under the BATIF Indenture
The following is a summary of the material provisions of the BATIF Indenture (as described
below), the applicable supplemental indenture and the BATIF Notes. Any capitalized term used
herein but not defined shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the BATIF Indenture, the
applicable supplemental indenture or under “—Certain Definitions”. The following summary
does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to,
all of the provisions of the BATIF Indenture, the applicable supplemental indenture and those
terms made a part of the BATIF Indenture and/or applicable supplemental indenture by
reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the “TIA”).
GENERAL
The 5.931% Notes due 2029 (the “2029 5.931% Notes”), the 4.448% Notes due 2028 (the “2028
4.448% Notes”) and the 1.668% Notes due 2026 (the “2026 1.668% Notes” and, together with
the 2029 5.931% Notes and the 2028 4.448% Notes, the “BATIF Notes”) were issued by B.A.T.
International Finance p.l.c. (“BATIF” or the “Issuer”).
The 2029 5.931% Notes will mature on February 2, 2029. The 2028 4.448% Notes will mature
on March 16, 2028. The 2026 1.668% Notes will mature on March 25, 2026. The BATIF Notes
were issued in registered form and treated as three separate series of debt securities and were
each issued under a supplemental indenture to the indenture dated as of September 25, 2020 (as
amended or supplemented from time to time, the “BATIF Indenture”) by and among BATIF, as
Issuer, British American Tobacco p.l.c. (“BAT” or the “Parent”), B.A.T Capital Corporation
(“BATCAP”), B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V. (“BATNF”) and, unless its guarantee is released
in accordance with the BATIF Indenture, Reynolds American Inc. (“RAI”), each as a guarantor,
Citibank, N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”), authentication agent, registrar, transfer agent,
calculation agent and initial paying agent (in such several capacities under the BATIF Indenture,
the “Authentication Agent”, “Registrar”, “Transfer Agent”, “Calculation Agent” and “Paying
Agent”, respectively).
Each guarantee in respect of the BATIF Notes is referred to herein as a “Guarantee” and each
entity that provides a Guarantee is referred to herein as a “Guarantor”. In this “Description of the
Notes Issued Under the BATIF Indenture”, the terms “holder”, “Noteholder” and other similar
terms refer to a “registered holder” of BATIF Notes, and not to a beneficial owner of a book-
entry interest in any BATIF Notes.
29
[[6543924]]
PRINCIPAL, MATURITY AND INTEREST
The obligations of the Issuer under the BATIF Notes and BATIF Indenture are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several, and senior and unsecured basis by each of the
Parent, BATCAP, BATNF and, unless its guarantee is released in accordance with the BATIF
Indenture, RAI.
The BATIF Notes were issued in the following aggregate principal amounts, with outstanding
aggregate principal amounts as of December 31, 2024 and maturity dates as follows:
Series of BATIF Initial aggregate Outstanding aggregate
Notes principal amount principal amount Maturity date
2029 5.931% Notes $1,000,000,000 $1,000,000,000 February 2, 2029
2028 4.448% Notes $1,000,000,000 $1,000,000,000 March 16, 2028
2026 1.668% Notes $1,500,000,000 $1,500,000,000 March 25, 2026
Interest
The BATIF Notes bear interest per annum as follows:
Series of BATIF Notes Interest rate per annum
2029 5.931% Notes 5.931%
2028 4.448% Notes 4.448%
2026 1.668% Notes 1.668%
The BATIF Notes will bear interest from the date of the initial issuance of such BATIF Notes or
from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or provided for,
payable semi-annually in arrear on each series’ respective Interest Payment Dates (as defined in
the table below) of each year, commencing on each series’ respective Initial Interest Payment
Date (as defined in the table below) until each series’ respective maturity date, unless previously
purchased and cancelled or redeemed by the Issuer, to the person in whose name any such
BATIF Note is registered at the close of business on the 15th calendar day preceding each
Interest Payment Date, whether or not such day is a Business Day (each, a “Record Date”)
notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of such BATIF Notes subsequent to the Record Date
and prior to such Interest Payment Date, except that, if and to the extent the Issuer shall default
in the payment of the interest due on such Interest Payment Date, and the applicable grace period
shall have expired, such defaulted interest may at the option of the Issuer be paid to the persons
in whose names such outstanding BATIF Notes are registered at the close of business on a
subsequent Record Date (which shall not be less than five Business Days prior to the date of
payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice sent by or on behalf of the Issuer to the
holders of such BATIF Notes, not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent Record Date.
Initial Interest Payment
Series of BATIF Notes Interest Payment Dates Date
2029 5.931% Notes February 2 and
February 2, 2024
August 2
30
[[6543924]]
2028 4.448% Notes March 16 and
September 16, 2022
September 16
2026 1.668% Notes March 25 and
March 25, 2021
September 25
Interest is computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, or in the
case of an incomplete month, the number of days elapsed. If the date on which any interest
payment or principal payment is to be made is not a Business Day, such payment will be made
on the next day which is a Business Day, without any further interest or other amounts being
paid or payable in connection therewith. A “Business Day” refers to any day which is not, in
London or New York City, or any other place of payment, a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a
day on which banking institutions are authorized or obligated by law or regulation to close.
Form and Denomination
The BATIF Notes were issued in fully registered form and only in minimum denominations of
$2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, and were issued initially as global
notes representing the BATIF Notes (collectively, the “BATIF Global Notes”). The BATIF
Global Notes were (i) registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of such
Depositary, in each case for the credit to an account of a member of, or direct or indirect
participant in, the Depositary; and (ii) delivered to Citibank, N.A. as custodian for such
Depositary.
Further Issues
The aggregate principal amount of notes (including the BATIF Notes) issuable under the BATIF
Indenture (the “Notes”) is unlimited. The Issuer may, from time to time, without notice to or the
consent of the holders of the BATIF Notes, issue Notes of a new series or “reopen” any series of
the Notes (including the BATIF Notes) and create and issue additional notes having substantially
identical terms and conditions as the then-outstanding Notes of a series (including the BATIF
Notes) (or in all respects except as to issue date, issue price and the date from which interest, if
any, shall accrue and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to an officer’s
certificate or any supplemental indenture relating thereto) so that the additional Notes are
consolidated and form a single series of Notes with the outstanding Notes of such series, as the
case may be; provided that if the additional Notes are not fungible with the outstanding Notes of
the relevant series for United States Federal income tax purposes, the additional Notes will have
separate CUSIPs, ISINs, or other identifying numbers.
Status of the BATIF Notes and Guarantees
The BATIF Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer and rank pari
passu in right of payment among themselves and with all other direct, unsecured and
unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer (except those obligations preferred by statute or
operation of law). Each Guarantor fully and unconditionally guarantees, on a senior, unsecured
basis, the due and punctual payment (and not collectability) of the principal of and interest on the
BATIF Notes (and the payment of additional amounts described under “—Additional Amounts”
31
[[6543924]]
below) and other obligations under the BATIF Indenture when and as the same shall become due
and payable, whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or
otherwise. Each Guarantee is an unsecured and unsubordinated obligation of the respective
Guarantor and rank pari passu in right of payment with all other direct, unsecured and
unsubordinated obligations of such Guarantor (except those obligations preferred by statute or
operation of law). The Issuer and each Guarantor are subject to a negative pledge with respect to
certain types of indebtedness, which are discussed below under “—Covenants of the Issuer and
the Guarantors—Negative Pledge”.
Guarantees
Release
The BATIF Indenture and the applicable supplemental indenture provide that, without the
consent of the Trustee or the Noteholders, any Guarantor that is a subsidiary of the Parent (a
“Subsidiary Guarantor”), other than BATCAP and BATNF, will automatically and
unconditionally be released from all obligations under its Guarantee, and such Guarantee shall
thereupon terminate and be discharged and of no further force or effect, in the event that (1) its
guarantee of all then outstanding notes issued under the EMTN Programme is released or (2) at
substantially the same time its Guarantee is terminated, the Subsidiary Guarantor is released
from all obligations in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money for which such Subsidiary
Guarantor is an obligor (as a guarantor or borrower). For purposes of this paragraph, the amount
of a Subsidiary Guarantor’s indebtedness for borrowed money shall not include (A) the Notes
(including the BATIF Notes) issued pursuant to the BATIF Indenture, (B) any other debt the
terms of which permit the termination of such Subsidiary Guarantor’s guarantee of such debt
under similar circumstances, as long as such Subsidiary Guarantor’s obligations in respect of
such other debt are terminated at substantially the same time as its Guarantee of the Notes
(including the BATIF Notes), (C) any debt that is being refinanced at substantially the same time
that the Guarantee of the Notes (including the BATIF Notes) is being released, provided that any
obligations of the relevant Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the debt that is incurred in the
refinancing shall be included in the calculation of the relevant Subsidiary Guarantor’s
indebtedness for borrowed money and (D) for the avoidance of doubt, any debt in respect of
which such Subsidiary Guarantor is an obligor (as a guarantor or borrower) (i) between or among
the Parent and any subsidiary or subsidiaries thereof or (ii) between or among any subsidiaries of
the Parent.
As of the date of this summary, RAI is the only Subsidiary Guarantor to which the above
provision is relevant. Under the EMTN Programme, a Subsidiary Guarantor’s guarantee is
released if at any time the aggregate amount of indebtedness for borrowed money for which the
Subsidiary Guarantor is an obligor does not exceed 10% of the outstanding long-term debt of
BAT as reflected in the balance sheet included in BAT’s most recent publicly released interim or
annual consolidated financial statements, as evidenced by a certificate to such effect addressed to
the trustee under the EMTN Programme and signed by a director of BAT.
32
[[6543924]]
Additional Amounts
The Issuer or, if applicable, each Guarantor will make payments of, or in respect of, principal,
premium (if any) and interest on the BATIF Notes, or any payment pursuant to the applicable
Guarantee, as the case may be, without withholding or deduction for or on account of any present
or future tax, levy, impost or other similar governmental charge (“Taxes”) imposed, assessed,
levied or collected by or for the account of the United Kingdom, The Netherlands (in the case of
a payment by BATNF) or the United States (in the case of a payment by BATCAP or RAI),
including in each case any political subdivision thereof or any authority thereof having the power
to tax (a “Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction”), unless such withholding or deduction is required by
law.
If the Issuer or, if applicable, any such Guarantor is required by a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction to
so withhold or deduct such Taxes, the Issuer or, if applicable, such Guarantor will pay to the
Holder such additional amounts (“Additional Amounts”) as will result in the receipt by the
Holder of such amounts as would have been received by it if no such withholding or deduction
of Taxes had been required; provided, however, that amounts with respect to any United States
Tax shall be payable only to Holders that are not United States persons (within the meaning of
the Code) and provided further, that neither the Issuer nor such Guarantor shall be required to
pay any Additional Amounts for or on account of:
(a) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the Holder or beneficial owner of the applicable Note or Guarantee (or a
fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of, or possessor of a power
over, such Holder, if such Holder is an estate, trust, partnership or corporation)
being or having been a domiciliary, national or resident of, or engaging or having
been engaged in a trade or business, maintaining or having maintained a
permanent establishment or being or having been physically present in, a Relevant
Taxing Jurisdiction or otherwise having or having had some connection with a
Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction other than the holding or ownership of, or the
collection of principal of, and premium (if any) or interest on, a Note or the
enforcement of the applicable Guarantee, as the case may be;
(b) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the fact that, where presentation is required in order to receive payment, the
applicable Note or Guarantee was presented more than 30 days after the date on
which such payment became due and payable or was provided for, whichever is
later, except to the extent that the Holder or beneficial owner thereof would have
been entitled to Additional Amounts had the applicable Note or Guarantee been
presented for payment on any day during such 30-day period;
(c) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, personal property or similar Taxes;
(d) any Taxes that are payable otherwise than by withholding or deduction from
payments on or in respect of the applicable Note or Guarantee;
33
[[6543924]]
(e) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the failure by the Holder or the beneficial owner of the applicable Note or
Guarantee to (i) provide any certification, identification, information, documents
or other evidence concerning the nationality, residence or identity of the Holder or
the beneficial owner or its connection with a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction; or (ii)
make any valid or timely declaration or claim or satisfy any other reporting,
information or procedural requirements relating to such matters if, in either case,
compliance is required by statute, regulation, relevant income tax treaty or
administrative practice of a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction as a condition to relief or
exemption from such Taxes;
(f) any Taxes imposed by reason of the Holder or the beneficial owner of the
applicable Note or Guarantee being or having been considered a bank receiving
payments on an extension of credit made pursuant to a loan agreement entered
into in the ordinary course of its trade or business, as described in Section
881(c)(3)(A) of the Code (or any amended or successor provisions);
(g) any Taxes imposed on interest received by a 10-percent shareholder of the Issuer
or any Guarantor within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) or Section
881(c)(3)(B) of the Code (or any amended or successor provisions);
(h) any backup withholding imposed pursuant to Section 3406 of the Code (or any
amended or successor provisions);
(i) any Taxes imposed pursuant to Section 871(h)(6) or Section 881(c)(6) of the
Code (or any amended or successor provisions);
(j) any Taxes imposed by reason of the Holder or the beneficial owner of the
applicable Note or Guarantee being or having been a personal holding company,
passive foreign investment company or controlled foreign corporation for U.S.
Federal income tax purposes or a corporation that has accumulated earnings to
avoid U.S. Federal income tax;
(k) any Taxes imposed or withheld pursuant to Sections 1471 through 1474 of the
Code (or any amended or successor provisions), any U.S. Treasury regulations
promulgated thereunder, any official interpretations thereof or any agreements
entered into in connection with the implementation thereof (“FATCA
Withholding”);
(l) any Taxes imposed or to be withheld pursuant to the Dutch Withholding Tax Act
2021 (Wet bronbelasting 2021); or
(m) any combination of the Taxes described in clauses (a) through (l) above.
In addition, Additional Amounts will not be paid with respect to any payment of the principal of,
or premium (if any) or interest on, any BATIF Note or any payment pursuant to the applicable
Guarantee to any Holder that is a fiduciary, a partnership, a limited liability company or any
person other than the sole beneficial owner of such payment to the extent a beneficiary or settlor
34
[[6543924]]
with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership, an interest holder in such limited
liability company or a beneficial owner that would not have been entitled to such amounts had
such beneficiary, settlor, member, interest holder or beneficial owner been the Holder of the
applicable BATIF Note or Guarantee.
Unless otherwise stated, references in any context to the payment of principal of, and premium
(if any) or interest on, any BATIF Note, or any payment pursuant to a Guarantee, will be deemed
to include payment of Additional Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional
Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof.
Redemption
The BATIF Notes are subject to optional redemption by the Issuer as described below under “—
Optional Redemption”. The BATIF Notes are subject to optional redemption by the Issuer in the
event of certain changes in tax laws applicable to payments in respect of the BATIF Notes as
described below under “—Redemption for Tax Reasons”.
Optional Redemption of the 2029 5.931% Notes and the 2028 4.448% Notes (the “post-2021
BATIF Notes”)
The Issuer may redeem the post-2021 BATIF Notes, in whole or in part, at the Issuer’s option, at
any time and from time to time before the applicable Par Call Date (as defined below), at a
redemption price equal to the greater of (x) 100% of the principal amount of the series of post-
2021 BATIF Notes to be redeemed and (y) the sum of the present values of the applicable
Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) discounted to the date of redemption (the
“Redemption Date”) on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-
day months or, in the case of an incomplete month, the number of days elapsed) at the Treasury
Rate (as defined below) plus, in the case of each respective series of post-2021 BATIF Notes as
follows:
2029 5.931% Notes 30 basis points
2028 4.448% Notes 40 basis points
together with, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the post-2021
BATIF Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
If the Issuer elects to redeem a series of post-2021 BATIF Notes on or after the applicable Par
Call Date, the Issuer will pay an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount of the post-2021
BATIF Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the
Redemption Date.
In connection with such optional redemption the following defined terms apply:
• Par Call Date means (i) January 2, 2029 with respect to any 2029 5.931% Notes (one
month prior to the maturity date of the 2029 5.931% Notes) and (ii) February 16, 2028
with respect to any 2028 4.448% Notes (one month prior to the maturity date of the 2028
4.448% Notes).
35
[[6543924]]
• Remaining Scheduled Payments means, with respect to each post-2021 BATIF Note to
be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest
thereon that would be due from and including the related Redemption Date, but for such
redemption, to but excluding the relevant Par Call Date; provided, however, that if that
Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such post-2021 BATIF
Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be
reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to, but excluding, that Redemption
Date.
• Treasury Rate means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the yield determined by the
Issuer in accordance with the following two paragraphs:
(1) The Treasury Rate shall be determined by the Issuer after 4:15 p.m., New York
City time (or after such time as yields on U.S. government securities are posted
daily by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), on the third
Business Day preceding the Redemption Date based upon the yield or yields for
the most recent day that appear after such time on such day in the most recent
statistical release published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System designated as “Selected Interest Rates (Daily)—H.15” (or any successor
designation or publication) (“H.15”) under the caption “U.S. government
securities—Treasury constant maturities—Nominal” (or any successor caption or
heading) (“H.15 TCM”). In determining the Treasury Rate, the Issuer shall select,
as applicable: (1) the yield for the Treasury constant maturity on H.15 exactly
equal to the period from the redemption date to the Par Call Date (the “Remaining
Life”); or (2) if there is no such Treasury constant maturity on H.15 exactly equal
to the Remaining Life, the two yields—one yield corresponding to the Treasury
constant maturity on H.15 immediately shorter than and one yield corresponding
to the Treasury constant maturity on H.15 immediately longer than the Remaining
Life—and shall interpolate to the Par Call Date on a straight-line basis (using the
actual number of days) using such yields and rounding the result to three decimal
places; or (3) if there is no such Treasury constant maturity on H.15 shorter than
or longer than the Remaining Life, the yield for the single Treasury constant
maturity on H.15 closest to the Remaining Life. For purposes of this paragraph,
the applicable Treasury constant maturity or maturities on H.15 shall be deemed
to have a maturity date equal to the relevant number of months or years, as
applicable, of such Treasury constant maturity from the Redemption Date.
(2) If on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date H.15 TCM is no
longer published, the Issuer shall calculate the Treasury Rate based on the rate per
annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity at 11:00 a.m., New
York City time, on the second business day preceding such Redemption Date of
the United States Treasury security maturing on, or with a maturity that is closest
to, the Par Call Date, as applicable. If there is no United States Treasury security
maturing on the Par Call Date but there are two or more United States Treasury
securities with a maturity date equally distant from the Par Call Date, one with a
maturity date preceding the Par Call Date and one with a maturity date following
the Par Call Date, the Issuer shall select the United States Treasury security with a
36
[[6543924]]
maturity date preceding the Par Call Date. If there are two or more United States
Treasury securities maturing on the Par Call Date or two or more United States
Treasury securities meeting the criteria of the preceding sentence, the Issuer shall
select from among these two or more United States Treasury securities the United
States Treasury security that is trading closest to par based upon the average of
the bid and asked prices for such United States Treasury securities at 11:00 a.m.,
New York City time. In determining the Treasury Rate in accordance with the
terms of this paragraph, the semi-annual yield to maturity of the applicable United
States Treasury security shall be based upon the average of the bid and asked
prices (expressed as a percentage of principal amount) at 11:00 a.m., New York
City time, of such United States Treasury security, and rounded to three decimal
places.
Notice of any optional redemption will be given in accordance with the BATIF Indenture (as
supplemented by the supplemental indentures pursuant to which the post-2021 BATIF Notes
were issued) at least 10 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each
holder of the post-2021 BATIF Notes to be redeemed. Any redemption may, at the Issuer’s sole
discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent. In the event of a
conditional redemption, the notice of conditional redemption shall reflect and specify the
conditions to the redemption. Once the notice of redemption is delivered, post-2021 BATIF
Notes called for redemption shall, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable conditions,
become irrevocably due and payable on the Redemption Date.
If less than all the post-2021 BATIF Notes of a series are to be redeemed, in the case of a
redemption at the Issuer’s option as discussed in this section, the post-2021 BATIF Notes to be
redeemed shall be selected in accordance with applicable procedures of DTC.
Upon presentation of any post-2021 BATIF Note redeemed in part only, the Issuer will execute
and upon receipt of a written direction from the Issuer, the Paying Agent will authenticate and
deliver (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to, or on, the order of the holder thereof, at the
expense of the Issuer, a new post-2021 BATIF Note of authorized denominations in principal
amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the post-2021 BATIF Note so presented.
The Issuer’s actions and determinations in determining the redemption price shall be conclusive
and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Optional Redemption of the 2026 1.668% Notes
The Issuer may redeem the 2026 1.668% Notes, in whole or in part, at the Issuer’s option, at any
time and from time to time before the Par Call Date (as defined below), at a redemption price
equal to the greater of (x) 100% of the principal amount of the 2026 1.668% Notes to be
redeemed and (y) as determined by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined below), the
sum of the present values of the applicable Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below)
discounted to the date of redemption (the “Redemption Date”) on a semi-annual basis (assuming
a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months or, in the case of an incomplete month, the
number of days elapsed) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 25 basis points, together
37
[[6543924]]
with accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the 2026 1.668% Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
If the Issuer elects to redeem a series of the 2026 1.668% Notes on or after the Par Call Date, the
Issuer will pay an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2026 1.668% Notes
redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of redemption.
In connection with such optional redemption the following defined terms apply:
• Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the
Independent Investment Banker that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in
accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt
securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2026 1.668% Notes to the
Par Call Date.
• Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average
of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding
the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations or (B) if the
Independent Investment Banker for the 2026 1.668% Notes obtains fewer than four such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations.
• Independent Investment Banker means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers (as defined
below) appointed by the Issuer to act as the “Independent Investment Banker”.
• Par Call Date means February 25, 2026 (one month prior to the maturity date of the 2026
1.668% Notes).
• Reference Treasury Dealer means each of BofA Securities, Inc., Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, NatWest Markets Securities Inc., SG
Americas Securities, LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective
successors and two other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are
Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by the Issuer; provided, however,
that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer
in New York City (a “Primary Treasury Dealer”), the Issuer shall substitute therefor
another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
• Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation means, with respect to each Reference Treasury
Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent
Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the
Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New
York City time, on the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date.
• Remaining Scheduled Payments means, with respect to each BATIF Note to be
redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon
that would be due from and including the related Redemption Date, but for such
redemption, to but excluding the Par Call Date; provided, however, that if that
Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such 2026 1.668%
38
[[6543924]]
Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be
reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to that Redemption Date.
• Treasury Rate means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to
the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third Business Day
immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue,
assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
Notice of any optional redemption will be given in accordance with the BATIF Indenture at least
10 days but not more than 30 days before the Redemption Date to each holder of the 2026
1.668% Notes to be redeemed. Any redemption may, at the Issuer’s sole discretion, be subject to
the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent. In the event of a conditional redemption,
the notice of conditional redemption shall reflect and specify the conditions to the redemption.
Once the notice of redemption is delivered, 2026 1.668% Notes called for redemption shall,
subject to the satisfaction of any applicable conditions, become irrevocably due and payable on
the Redemption Date.
If less than all the 2026 1.668% Notes are to be redeemed, in the case of a redemption at the
Issuer’s option as discussed in this section, the 2026 1.668% Notes to be redeemed shall be
selected in accordance with applicable procedures of DTC.
Upon presentation of any 2026 1.668% Note redeemed in part only, the Issuer will execute and
upon receipt of a written direction from the Issuer, the Paying Agent will authenticate and deliver
(or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to, or on, the order of the holder thereof, at the expense
of the Issuer, a new 2026 1.668% Note of authorized denominations in principal amount equal to
the unredeemed portion of the 2026 1.668% Note so presented.
The redemption price shall be calculated by the Independent Investment Banker and the Issuer,
and the Trustee and any agent shall be entitled to rely on such calculation.
Redemption for Tax Reasons
Each series of Notes (including the BATIF Notes) is also redeemable by the Issuer, in whole but
not in part, at 100% of the principal amount of such Notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest
(including any Additional Amounts) to the applicable date fixed for such redemption pursuant to
the terms of the BATIF Indenture or such series of Notes (the “Redemption Date”) at the Issuer’s
option at any time prior to their maturity if, due to a Change in Tax Law (as defined below): (i)
the Issuer or any Guarantor, in accordance with the terms of the applicable Notes or applicable
Guarantee, has, or would, become obligated to pay any Additional Amounts to the Holders of the
Notes of that series; (ii) in the case of any Guarantor, (A) the Parent would be unable, for reasons
outside its control, to procure payment by the Issuer or any other Guarantor or (B) the procuring
of such payment by the Issuer and each such other Guarantor would be subject to withholding
Taxes imposed by a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction; and (iii) such obligation cannot otherwise be
avoided by such Guarantor, the Parent or the Issuer, taking reasonable measures available to it.
In such case, the Issuer may redeem the applicable Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60
days’ notice as provided in “ —Notice” below, at 100% of the principal amount of such Notes
39
[[6543924]]
plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date (including Additional Amounts);
provided that (a) no such notice of redemption shall be given earlier than 90 days prior to the
earliest date on which the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the case may be, would be obligated to
pay any such Additional Amounts in respect of the applicable Notes or applicable Guarantee, as
applicable, then due; and (b) at the time such notice is given, such obligation to pay such
Additional Amounts remains in effect. The Issuer’s right to redeem the applicable Notes shall
continue as long as the Issuer or any Guarantor is obligated to pay such Additional Amounts,
notwithstanding that the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the case may be, shall have made payments
of Additional Amounts. Prior to the giving of any such notice of redemption, the Issuer must
deliver to the Trustee: (i) an officer’s certificate stating that the Issuer is entitled to effect such
redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the
right of the Issuer to so redeem have occurred; and (ii) an opinion of independent counsel or an
independent accountant of recognized standing, selected by the Issuer or any Guarantor, as
applicable, with respect to tax matters of the Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction to the effect that the
Issuer or such Guarantor has, or would, become obligated to pay such Additional Amounts as a
result of such Change in Tax Law.
For the purposes hereof, “Change in Tax Law” shall mean: (i) any changes in, or amendment to,
any law of a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction (including any regulations or rulings promulgated
thereunder and including, for this purpose, any treaty entered into by the Relevant Taxing
Jurisdiction) or any amendment to or change in the application or official interpretation
(including judicial or administrative interpretation) of such law, which change or amendment
becomes effective or, in the case of an official interpretation, is announced, on or after the first
date of issuance of Notes of such series; or (ii) if the Issuer or any Guarantor consolidates,
merges, amalgamates or combines with, or transfers or leases its assets substantially as an
entirety to, any person that is incorporated or tax resident under the laws of any jurisdiction other
than a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction (a “successor”) and as a consequence thereof such person
becomes the successor obligor to the Issuer or such Guarantor in respect of Additional Amounts
that may become payable (in which case, for purposes of this redemption provision, all
references to the Issuer or such Guarantor shall be deemed to be and include references to such
person), any change in, or amendment to, any law of the jurisdiction of organization or tax
residence of such successor, or the jurisdiction through which payments will be made by the
successor, or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or thereon for purposes of
taxation (including any regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder and including, for this
purpose, any treaty entered into by such jurisdiction) or any amendment to or change in the
application or official interpretation (including judicial or administrative interpretation) of such
law, which change or amendment becomes effective or, in the case of an official interpretation, is
announced, on or after the date of such consolidation, merger, amalgamation, combination or
other transaction.
General
On or before any Redemption Date (as defined above), the Issuer shall deposit with the Paying
Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued and unpaid interest on the
BATIF Notes to be redeemed on such date.
40
[[6543924]]
On and after any Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the BATIF Notes or any
portion thereof called for redemption.
Maturity
Unless previously purchased or redeemed by the Issuer, and cancelled, the principal amount of
each respective series of BATIF Notes shall mature on
Series of BATIF Notes Maturity date
2029 5.931% Notes February 2, 2029
2028 4.448% Notes March 16, 2028
2026 1.668% Notes March 25, 2026
in an amount equal, in each case, to their principal amount, with accrued and unpaid interest to,
but excluding, such date.
Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors
Reacquisition
There is no restriction on the ability of the Issuer to purchase or repurchase Notes (including the
BATIF Notes), provided, that any Notes so repurchased shall be cancelled and not reissued.
Sinking Fund
There is no provision for a sinking fund for any of the Notes (including the BATIF Notes).
Certain Definitions
Set forth below is a summary of certain of the defined terms used in the BATIF Notes, the
BATIF Indenture and the applicable supplemental indenture. You should refer to the BATIF
Notes, the BATIF Indenture and applicable supplemental indenture for the full definition of all
defined terms as well as any other terms used herein for which no definition is provided.
“Dollar” or “$” means United States Dollars, or such other money of the United States that at the
time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
“EMTN Programme” means the Euro Medium Term Note Programme to which BATCAP,
BATIF and BATNF are parties as the issuers under the programme and notes issued thereunder
are guaranteed by the Parent, each of the issuers thereunder (except when it is the relevant issuer)
and RAI, as amended from time to time.
“Original Issue Discount Note” means any Note that is issued with “original issue discount”
within the meaning of Section 1273(a) of the Code and Treasury Regulations promulgated
thereunder and any other Note designated by the Company as issued with original issue discount
for United States federal income tax purposes.
41
[[6543924]]
“Person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited
liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any
agency or political subdivision thereof.
“Quoted Borrowing” means any indebtedness which: (i) is represented by notes, debentures or
other securities issued otherwise than to constitute or represent advances made by banks and/or
other lending institutions; (ii) is denominated, or confers any right to payment of principal and/or
interest, in or by reference to any currency other than the currency of the country in which the
issuer of the indebtedness has its principal place of business or is denominated, or confers any
right to payment of principal and/or interest, in or by reference to the currency of such country
but is sold or subscribed by or on behalf of, or by agreement with, the issuer of such
indebtedness as to over 20% outside such country; and (iii) at its date of issue is, or is intended
by the issuer of such indebtedness to become, quoted, listed, traded or dealt in on any stock
exchange or other organized and regulated securities market in any part of the world.
Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors
Negative Pledge
The BATIF Indenture provides that so long as any of the Notes (including the BATIF Notes)
remains outstanding, neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor will secure or allow to be secured any
Quoted Borrowing issued by the Issuer or any Guarantor or any payment under any guarantee by
any of them of any such Quoted Borrowing by any mortgage, charge, pledge or lien (other than
arising by operation of law) upon any of its undertaking or assets, whether present or future,
unless at the same time the same mortgage, charge, pledge or lien is extended, or security which
is not materially less beneficial to the holders of the Notes than the security given as aforesaid or
which shall be approved by consent of the holders of not less than 75% in aggregate principal
amount of the Notes at the time outstanding is extended or created (as the case may be), to secure
equally and ratably the principal of, and interest on, and all other payments (if any) in respect of
the Notes.
Limitation on Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations
Under the BATIF Indenture, so long as any of the Notes (including the BATIF Notes) remains
outstanding thereunder, neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor may consolidate with or merge into
any other person or sell, convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets as an entirety or
substantially as an entirety to any person (other than any sale or conveyance by way of a lease in
the ordinary course of business), unless: (i) in the case of the Issuer, any successor person
assumes the Issuer’s obligations on the Notes (including the BATIF Notes) and under the BATIF
Indenture and, in the case of any Guarantor, any successor person assumes such Guarantor’s
obligations on the Guarantee and under the BATIF Indenture; (ii) immediately after giving effect
to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or
both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; (iii) such
successor person is organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, the United
Kingdom, The Netherlands or any other country that is a member of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development as of the date of such succession; (iv) such successor
person agrees to pay any Additional Amounts with respect to any withholding or deduction of
42
[[6543924]]
Taxes or any payment on the Notes (including the BATIF Notes) or Guarantees (as applicable)
imposed by the jurisdiction (other than the United States, unless otherwise required by clause (i)
of this paragraph) in which such successor person is incorporated or otherwise a resident for tax
purposes subject to the exceptions described under “—Additional Amounts” (for the avoidance of
doubt, solely to the extent such successor person is the Issuer, changes will be made to the
BATIF Indenture as are necessary to obligate the Issuer to pay such Additional Amount); and (v)
if as a result of such consolidation or merger or such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease,
properties or assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor would become subject to a mortgage, pledge,
security interest, lien or similar encumbrance to secure payment of any indebtedness for
borrowed money of the Issuer or any Guarantor which would not be permitted by the Notes of a
series or under the BATIF Indenture, the Issuer or any Guarantor or such successor person, as the
case may be, shall take such steps as shall be necessary to effectively secure the Notes of such
series equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness for borrowed money secured
thereby.
The limitation on mergers, consolidations, amalgamations and combinations described in this
section “—Limitation on Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations” shall not
apply to any consolidation, merger, amalgamation or combination in which the Issuer or any
Guarantor is the surviving corporation except that, in such case, the provisions of (ii) and (v)
above shall apply such that: (x) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of
Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of
Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and (y) if as a result of such consolidation or
merger or such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the Issuer or any
Guarantor would become subject to a mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or similar
encumbrance to secure payment of any indebtedness for borrowed money of the Issuer or any
Guarantor which would not be permitted by the Notes or under the BATIF Indenture, the Issuer
or any Guarantor, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be necessary to effectively
secure the Notes equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness for borrowed money
secured thereby.
The BATIF Indenture does not contain covenants or other provisions to afford protection to
holders of the Notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction or a change in control of the
Issuer or any Guarantor except as provided above.
Upon certain mergers or consolidations involving the Issuer or any Guarantor, or upon certain
sales or conveyances of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor, the
obligations of the Issuer or such Guarantor, under the applicable Notes or the applicable
Guarantee, shall be assumed by the person formed by such merger or consolidation or which
shall have acquired such assets and upon such assumptions such person shall succeed to and be
substituted for the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the case may be, and then the Issuer or such
Guarantor will (except in the case of a lease) be relieved of all obligations and covenants under
the BATIF Indenture, the Notes and the applicable Guarantee, as the case may be. The terms
“Issuer” and “Guarantor”, as used in the Notes and the BATIF Indenture, also refer to any such
successors or assigns so substituted.
Although there is a limited body of case law interpreting the phrase “entirety or substantially as
an entirety”, there is no precise established definition of the phrase under applicable law.
43
[[6543924]]
Accordingly, in certain circumstances, there may be a degree of uncertainty as to whether a
particular transaction would involve a disposition of “entirety or substantially as an entirety” of
the Issuer’s assets and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Events of Default
Each of the following events shall be an “Event of Default” with respect to any series of the
Notes (including the BATIF Notes):
(i) Non-Payment: default is made in the payment of: (a) any installment of interest
(excluding Additional Amounts) upon any applicable Note as and when the same
shall become due and payable, and there is a continuance of such default for a
period of 14 days or more; (b) applicable Additional Amounts as and when the
same shall become due and payable, and there is a continuance of such default for
a period of 14 days; or (c) all or any part of the principal or premium, if any, of
any applicable Note as and when the same shall become due and payable either at
maturity, upon any redemption, by declaration or otherwise, and there is a
continuance of such default for a period of three days;
(ii) Breach of Other Obligations: the Issuer or any Guarantor does not perform or
comply with any one or more of its other obligations under the applicable Notes
or the BATIF Indenture (other than those described in paragraph (i) above) which
is not remedied within 30 days (unless a longer period is specified in the BATIF
Indenture) after written notice of such default shall have been given to the Issuer
by the Trustee or to the Issuer and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% of
the outstanding principal amount of the Notes;
(iii) Cross-Default: (a) any other present or future indebtedness for borrowed money
of the Issuer or any Guarantor, other than the Notes issued by the Issuer, becomes
due and payable prior to its stated maturity by reason of any default or event of
default in respect thereof by the Issuer or any Guarantor and remains unpaid; or
(b) any such indebtedness for borrowed money is not paid when due or, as the
case may be, within any applicable grace period; or (c) the Issuer or any
Guarantor fails to pay when due and called upon (after the expiry of any
applicable grace period) any amount payable by it under any present or future
guarantee for, or indemnity in respect of, any indebtedness for borrowed money
and which remains unpaid; provided that (x) payment of the indebtedness for
borrowed money is not being contested in good faith and in accordance with legal
advice or (y) the aggregate amount of the indebtedness for borrowed money,
guarantees and indemnities in respect of which one or more of the events
mentioned above in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph (iii) has or have
occurred and is or are continuing, equals or exceeds £750 million or its equivalent
in any other currency of the indebtedness for borrowed money or, if greater,
1.25% of the Total Equity of the Parent, as set out in the “Total Equity” line item
in the most recent consolidated group balance sheet of the Parent and its
subsidiaries in the Parent’s most recent annual report;
44
[[6543924]]
(iv) Cessation of Guarantees: any Guarantee ceases to be in full force and effect
(except as contemplated by the terms of the BATIF Indenture, including as
described above under “—Guarantees—Release”) or any Guarantor denies or
disaffirms in writing its obligations under the BATIF Indenture or Guarantee;
(v) Enforcement Proceedings: a distress or execution or other legal process is levied
or enforced against or an encumbrancer takes possession of or a receiver,
administrative receiver or other similar officer is appointed of the whole or a part
of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor which is substantial in relation to the
BAT Group taken as a whole and is not discharged, stayed, removed or paid out
within 45 days after such execution or appointment;
(vi) Security Enforced: any mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other encumbrance,
present or future, created or assumed by the Issuer or any Guarantor becomes
enforceable against all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer or any
Guarantor, and any step is taken to enforce it (including the taking of possession
or the appointment of a receiver, administrative receiver, manager or other similar
person) and is not discharged within 45 days;
(vii) Insolvency: the Issuer or any Guarantor is insolvent or bankrupt or unable to pay
its debts (in respect of companies incorporated in England and Wales, within the
meaning of Section 123(1)(b) or (e) or Section 123(2) of the UK Insolvency Act
1986), stops, suspends or threatens to stop or suspend payment of all or a material
part of its debts, proposes or makes a general assignment or an arrangement or
composition (otherwise than for the purposes of reconstruction, amalgamation,
reorganization, merger or consolidation or other similar arrangement) with or for
the benefit of its creditors in respect of any of such debts or a moratorium is
agreed or declared in respect of or affecting all or a material part of the debts of
the Issuer;
(viii) Winding-up: an order is made or an effective resolution passed for the winding-up
or dissolution or administration of the Issuer or any Guarantor, or the Issuer or
any Guarantor shall apply or petition for a winding-up or administration order in
respect of itself or ceases or threatens to cease to carry on all or substantially all of
its business or operations, in each case except for the purpose of and followed by
a reconstruction, amalgamation, reorganization, merger or consolidation or other
similar arrangement; or
(ix) Analogous Events: any event occurs that under the laws of any relevant
jurisdiction has an analogous effect to any of the events referred to in any of the
foregoing paragraphs (vii) and (viii).
The BATIF Indenture provides that if an Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect
to the Notes of any series then outstanding, then and in each and every such case (other than
certain Events of Default specified in paragraphs (vii), (viii) and (ix) above with respect to the
Issuer or any Guarantor), unless the principal of all the Notes of such series shall have already
become due and payable, the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the
45
[[6543924]]
Notes of such affected series then outstanding, by notice in writing to the Issuer, each Guarantor
and the Trustee, may declare the entire principal amount of all Notes of such series and interest
accrued and unpaid thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such
declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable, without any further declaration
or other act on the part of any holder. If certain Events of Default described in paragraph (vii),
(viii) or (ix) above occur with respect to the Issuer or any Guarantor and are continuing with
respect to a series of Notes, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest on all the
Notes of such series issued pursuant to the BATIF Indenture shall become immediately due and
payable, without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any holder. Under
certain circumstances, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then
outstanding Notes of such series, by written notice to the Issuer, each Guarantor and the Trustee,
may waive defaults and rescind and annul declarations of acceleration and its consequences, but
no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default
or shall impart any right consequent thereon.
The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of any series of Notes then outstanding
will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any
remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with
respect to the Notes of such series, subject to certain limitations to be specified in the BATIF
Indenture, including providing to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it.
An Event of Default with respect to any series of Notes would not necessarily constitute an event
of default with respect to the other series of Notes.
The BATIF Indenture provides that notwithstanding the foregoing provisions described under
“—Events of Default”, if the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or Additional Amounts
with respect to any Note is payable in a currency or currencies other than Dollars and such
currency or currencies are not available to the Issuer or any Guarantor for making payment
thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of
the Issuer or such Guarantor (each, a “Conversion Event”), the Issuer and the Guarantor will be
entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Notes by making such payment in Dollars in
an amount equal to the Dollar equivalent of the amount payable in such other currency, as
determined by the Issuer or the Guarantor making such payment, as the case may be, based on
the Exchange Rate on the date of such payment, or, if such rate is not then available, on the basis
of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, any
payment made under such circumstances in Dollars where the required payment is in a currency
other than Dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under the BATIF Indenture.
Promptly after the occurrence of a Conversion Event, the Issuer or the relevant Guarantor shall
give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Paying Agent; and the Trustee, promptly
after receipt of such notice, shall give notice thereof in the manner provided in the BATIF
Indenture to the Holders of the relevant series of Notes. Promptly after the making of any
payment in Dollars as a result of a Conversion Event, the Issuer or the Guarantor making such
payment, as the case may be, shall give notice in the manner provided in the BATIF Indenture to
the Holders, setting forth the applicable Exchange Rate and describing the calculation of such
payments.
46
[[6543924]]
No holder of the Notes of a series will have any right to institute any action or proceeding at law
or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise upon or under or with respect to the BATIF Indenture,
or for the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official or for
any other remedy under the BATIF Indenture (except suits for the enforcement of payment of
overdue principal or interest) unless (1) the holder of a Note gives to the Trustee written notice
of a continuing Event of Default, (2) the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the
outstanding Notes of such series have made a written request to the Trustee to institute such
proceeding as Trustee, (3) the holder or holders of Notes offer, and if requested, provide to the
Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense, (4) the
Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer
of indemnity and (5) during such 60-day period the holders of a majority in aggregate principal
amount of the outstanding Notes of such series have not given the Trustee a direction
inconsistent with the request. The holder of a Note may not use the BATIF Indenture to
prejudice the rights of another holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another
holder of a Note (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to
ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such holders).
Satisfaction and Discharge
The BATIF Indenture provides that BAT may, subject to satisfying certain conditions, discharge
certain obligations to the holders of Notes of any series of Notes that have not already been
delivered to the Trustee for cancellation and that either have become due and payable or will
become due and payable within one year (or scheduled for redemption within one year) by
depositing with the Trustee or Paying Agent, in trust, funds in an amount sufficient to pay the
entire indebtedness on such series of Notes in respect of principal and premium, if any, and
interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (if such Notes have become due and payable) or to the
maturity thereof or redemption date, as the case may be, along with an officer’s certificate and an
opinion of counsel stating that all conditions precedent relating to the satisfaction and discharge
of the BATIF Indenture have been complied with.
Legal Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
The BATIF Indenture provides that the Issuer will have the option either (a) to be deemed
(together with each Guarantor) to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented
by, and obligations under, a series of Notes and the applicable Guarantees and to have satisfied
all the obligations under the BATIF Indenture relating to the series of Notes (except for certain
obligations, including those relating to the defeasance trust and obligations to register the transfer
or exchange of Notes, to replace mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes and to maintain
paying agencies) on the 91st day after the applicable conditions described below have been
satisfied or (b) to cease (together with each Guarantor) to be under any obligation to comply with
the covenants described above under “ —Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors—Negative
Pledge”, “—Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors—Limitation on Mergers,
Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations”, and non-compliance with such covenants
and the occurrence of all events described above under “—Events of Default” will not give rise
to any Event of Default under the BATIF Indenture, at any time after the applicable conditions
described below have been satisfied.
47
[[6543924]]
In order to exercise either defeasance option, the Issuer must (i) deposit with the Trustee,
irrevocably in money or Government Obligations (as defined in the BATIF Indenture), funds
sufficient in the opinion of a certified public accounting firm of national reputation for the
payment of principal of and interest on the applicable outstanding Notes of any series to and
including the Redemption Date irrevocably designated by the Issuer on or prior to the date of
deposit of such money or Government Obligations, and must (ii) comply with certain other
conditions, including delivering to the Trustee an opinion of U.S. counsel to the effect that
beneficial owners of the applicable Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for United
States Federal income tax purposes as a result of the exercise of such option and will be subject
to United States Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same
time as would have been the case if such option had not been exercised and, in the case of clause
(a) in the previous paragraph, which opinion must state that such opinion is based on a ruling
received from or published by the United States Internal Revenue Service or on a change in the
applicable U.S. Federal income tax laws after the date of issuance of the relevant Notes.
Modification and Waiver
Without Consent of Noteholders
The BATIF Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Trustee,
without the consent of the holders of any of the applicable Notes at any time outstanding, from
time to time and at any time, to enter into a supplemental indenture amending or supplementing
such BATIF Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees in order to:
• convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the holders of the applicable Notes or any
person acting on their behalf as security for the applicable Notes any property or assets;
• evidence the succession of another person to the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may
be, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor person(s) of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may be,
pursuant to the BATIF Indenture;
• evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment of a successor or successors to
the Trustee and/or the Paying Agent, Transfer Agent, Calculation Agent and Registrar, as
applicable;
• add to the covenants of, or the restrictions, conditions or provisions applicable to, the
Issuer and any Guarantor, as the case may be, such further covenants, restrictions,
conditions or provisions as the Issuer and any Guarantor, as the case may be, shall
consider to be for the protection of the holders of the applicable Notes issued pursuant to
the BATIF Indenture, including to eliminate one or both prongs of the release provision
under “—Guarantees—Release”, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and
continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or
provisions an Event of Default under the BATIF Indenture permitting the enforcement of
all or any of the several remedies provided in the BATIF Indenture; provided that, in
respect of any such additional covenant, restriction, condition or provision, such
supplemental indenture may provide for a particular period of grace after default (which
48
[[6543924]]
may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other defaults) or may limit the
remedies available to the Trustee upon such an Event of Default;
• modify the restrictions on, and procedures for, resale and other transfers of the applicable
Notes pursuant to law, regulation or practice relating to the resale or transfer of restricted
securities generally;
• cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the BATIF
Indenture, the Notes, or the Guarantees which may be defective or inconsistent with any
other provision contained therein or to make such other provision in regard to matters or
questions arising under the BATIF Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees as the Issuer,
any Guarantor or the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable and which will not, in the
opinion of the Issuer, adversely affect the interests of the holders of the applicable Notes
in any material respect;
• issue an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Notes under the BATIF Indenture or to
“reopen” the applicable series of Notes and create and issue additional notes having
substantially identical terms and conditions as the applicable Notes (or in all respects
except as to issue price, denomination, rate of interest, Maturity Date and the date from
which interest, if any, shall accrue, and except as may otherwise be provided in or
pursuant to such officer’s certificate or supplemental indenture relating thereto) so that
the additional notes are consolidated and form a single series with the outstanding
applicable Notes; and
• evidence the addition of any new Guarantor of the Notes and the BATIF Indenture, or the
release of any Guarantor from its obligations with respect to the Notes and the BATIF
Indenture, pursuant to the terms of the BATIF Indenture.
With Consent of Noteholders
The BATIF Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer, each Guarantor and the Trustee,
with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of all
series of the Notes affected by such supplemental indenture (voting as one class) at the time
outstanding under the BATIF Indenture (including consents obtained in connection with a tender
offer or exchange offer for the applicable Notes), from time to time and at any time, to enter into
a supplemental indenture for the purpose of amending, waiving or otherwise modifying the
provisions of the BATIF Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees, or adding any provisions to or
changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the applicable Notes or of
modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the applicable Notes; provided, that no such
supplemental indenture may, without the consent of the holder of each of the Notes so affected:
• change the stated maturity of the applicable Note of, or the date for payment of any
principal of, or installment of interest on, any applicable Note, or reduce the amount of
principal of an Original Issue Discount Note that would be due and payable upon a
declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to the provisions of the
BATIF Indenture; or
49
[[6543924]]
• reduce the principal amount of or the rate or amount of interest on any applicable Note or
Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto or reduce the amount payable thereon
in the event of redemption or default or change the method for determining the interest
rate thereon; or
• change the currency of payment of principal of or interest on any applicable Note or
Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto; or change the obligation of the Issuer
or any Guarantor, as the case may be, to pay Additional Amounts (except as otherwise
permitted by such applicable Note); or
• impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or with
respect to any applicable Note; or
• reduce the percentage of the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Notes
outstanding the consent of whose holders is required for any such supplemental
indenture; or
• reduce the aggregate principal amount of any applicable Note outstanding necessary to
modify or amend the BATIF Indenture or any such Note or to waive any future
compliance or past default or reduce the quorum requirements or the percentage of
aggregate principal amount of any applicable Notes outstanding required for the adoption
of any action at any meeting of holders of such Notes or to reduce the percentage of the
aggregate principal amount of such Notes outstanding necessary to rescind or annul any
declaration of the principal of, or all accrued and unpaid interest on, any Note to be due
and payable,
provided that no consent of any holder of any applicable Note shall be necessary to permit the
Trustee, the Issuer and each Guarantor to execute supplemental indentures as described under
“—Without Consent of Noteholders” above.
Any modifications, amendments or waivers to the BATIF Indenture or to the conditions of the
applicable Notes will be conclusive and binding on all holders of the applicable Notes, whether
or not they have consented to such action or were present at the meeting at which such action
was taken, and on all future holders of the applicable Notes, whether or not notation of such
modifications, amendments or waivers is made upon such Notes. Any instrument given by or on
behalf of any holder of such a Note in connection with any consent to any such modification,
amendment or waiver will be irrevocable once given and will be conclusive and binding on all
subsequent registered holders of such Note.
Prescription
Under New York’s statute of limitations, any legal action upon the Notes in respect of interest or
principal must be commenced within six years after the payment thereof is due.
Notice
Notices to holders of Notes will be given by first-class mail postage prepaid to the last addresses
of such holders as they appear in the Notes register; provided, no such mailing will be required
50
[[6543924]]
so long as any Global Notes representing the Notes are held in their entirety on behalf of the
Depositary or a clearing system, or any of its participants, as there may be substituted for the
mailing of notice to holders of Notes described above the delivery of the relevant. Such notices
will be deemed to have been given on the date of such mailing; notices to the Depositary or a
clearing system, and (if applicable) its participants, for communication by them to the entitled
accountholders. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the day on which the
said notice was given to the Depositary or a clearing system, and (if applicable) its participants.
Listing
The BATIF Notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Consent to Service
Each of the Issuer and the non-U.S. Guarantors has initially designated BATCAP as its
authorized agent for service of process in any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or
relating to the performance of its obligations under the BATIF Indenture, the supplemental
indenture and the BATIF Notes brought in any state or federal court in the Borough of
Manhattan, the City of New York, and the Guarantors will irrevocably submit (but for these
purposes only) to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit, action or
proceeding.
Governing Law
The BATIF Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees are, and any applicable supplemental
indentures shall be, governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New
York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Regarding the Trustee and Agents
Citibank, N.A. is the trustee under the BATIF Indenture. Citibank, N.A. is appointed by the
Issuer to act as registrar, transfer agent, calculation agent and initial paying agent for the BATIF
Notes. The Issuer can change the registrar, transfer agent, calculation agent or paying agent
without prior notice to the holders of the BATIF Notes. The address of Citibank, N.A., as paying
agent, is Citibank, N.A., Agency & Trust, 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013. From
time to time, Citibank, N.A. and its respective affiliates perform various other services for the
BAT Group and its affiliates (including acting as a lender under one or more of the BAT Group’s
lending facilities from time to time).
The BATIF Indenture contains limitations on the rights of the trustee, if it becomes a creditor of
the Issuer or any Guarantor, to obtain payment of claims in some cases, or to realize on property
received in respect of any of these claims as security or otherwise. The Trustee is permitted to
engage in other transactions. However, if the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest (as defined
in the TIA), it must either eliminate its conflict within 90 days or resign.
The BATIF Indenture provides that except during the continuance of an Event of Default, the
Trustee will perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in such BATIF Indenture.
During the continuance of an Event of Default of which the Trustee has received written notice,
51
[[6543924]]
the Trustee will exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it under the BATIF Indenture,
and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or
use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person’s own affairs.
D. Description of the Notes Issued Under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture
The following is a summary of the material provisions of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture (as
described below), the applicable supplemental indentures and the Notes. Any capitalized term
used herein but not defined shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture, the applicable supplemental indenture or under “—Certain Definitions”. The
following summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its
entirety by reference to, all of the provisions of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the applicable
supplemental indentures and those terms made a part of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture and/or
applicable supplemental indentures by reference to the TIA.
GENERAL
The 5.834% Notes due 2031 (the “2031 5.834% Notes”), the 6.000% Notes due 2034 (the “2034
Notes”), 6.343% Notes due 2030 (the “2030 6.343% Notes”), the 6.421% Notes due 2033 (the
“2033 Notes”), the 7.079% Notes due 2043 (the “2043 Notes”), the 7.081% Notes due 2053 (the
“2053 Notes”), the 7.750% Notes due 2032 (the “2032 7.750% Notes”), the 4.742% Notes due
2032 (the “2032 4.742% Notes”), the 5.650% Notes due 2052 (the “2052 Notes”), the 2.259%
Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes”), the 2.726% Notes due 2031 (the “2031 2.726% Notes”), the
3.734% Notes due 2040 (the “2040 Notes”), the 3.984% Notes due 2050 (the “2050 3.984%
Notes”), the 4.700% Notes due 2027 (the “2027 4.700% Notes”), the 4.906% Notes due 2030
(the “2030 4.906% Notes”), the 5.282% Notes due 2050 (the “2050 5.282% Notes”), the 3.215%
Notes due 2026 (the “2026 Notes”), the 3.462% Notes due 2029 (the “2029 3.462% Notes”) and
the 4.758% Notes due 2049 (the “2049 Notes” and, together with the 2031 5.834% Notes, the
2034 Notes, the 2030 6.343% Notes, the 2033 Notes, the 2043 Notes, the 2053 Notes, the 2032
7.750% Notes, the 2032 4.742% Notes, the 2052 Notes, the 2028 Notes, the 2031 2.726% Notes,
the 2040 Notes, the 2050 3.984% Notes, the 2027 4.700% Notes, the 2030 4.906% Notes, the
2050 5.282% Notes, the 2026 Notes and the 2029 3.462% Notes, the “BATCAP Notes”) were
issued by B.A.T Capital Corporation (“BATCAP” or the “Issuer”).
In this “Description of the Notes Issued Under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture”, we refer to each
series of the BATCAP Notes as a “series” of BATCAP Notes.
The 2031 5.834% Notes will mature on February 20, 2031. The 2034 Notes will mature on
February 20, 2034. The 2030 6.343% Notes will mature on August 2, 2030. The 2033 Notes will
mature on August 2, 2033. The 2043 Notes will mature on August 2, 2043. The 2053 Notes will
mature on August 2, 2053. The 2032 7.750% Notes will mature on October 19, 2032. The 2032
4.742% Notes will mature on March 16, 2032. The 2052 Notes will mature on March 16, 2052.
The 2028 Notes will mature on March 25, 2028. The 2031 2.726% Notes will mature on March
25, 2031. The 2040 Notes will mature on September 25, 2040. The 2050 3.984% Notes will
mature on September 25, 2050. The 2027 4.700% Notes will mature on April 2, 2027. The 2030
4.906% Notes will mature on April 2, 2030. The 2050 5.282% Notes will mature on April 2,
52
[[6543924]]
2050. The 2026 Notes will mature on September 6, 2026. The 2029 3.462% Notes will mature
on September 6, 2029. The 2049 Notes will mature on September 6, 2049.
The BATCAP Notes were issued in registered form and treated as nineteen separate series of
debt securities and were each issued under a separate supplemental indenture to the indenture
dated as of September 6, 2019 (as amended or supplemented from time to time, the “2019
BATCAP Indenture”) by and among BATCAP, as Issuer, British American Tobacco p.l.c.
(“BAT” or the “Parent”), B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c. (“BATIF”), B.A.T. Netherlands
Finance B.V. (“BATNF”) and, unless its guarantee is released in accordance with the 2019
BATCAP Indenture, Reynolds American Inc. (“RAI”), each as a guarantor, Citibank, N.A., as
trustee (the “Trustee”), authentication agent, registrar, transfer agent, calculation agent and initial
paying agent (in such several capacities under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the “Authentication
Agent”, “Registrar”, “Transfer Agent”, “Calculation Agent” and “Paying Agent”, respectively).
Each guarantee in respect of the BATCAP Notes is referred to herein as a “Guarantee” and each
entity that provides a Guarantee is referred to herein as a “Guarantor”. In this “Description of the
Notes Issued Under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture”, the terms “holder”, “Noteholder” and other
similar terms refer to a “registered holder” of Notes, and not to a beneficial owner of a book-
entry interest in any BATCAP Notes.
PRINCIPAL, MATURITY AND INTEREST
The obligations of the Issuer under the BATCAP Notes and 2019 BATCAP Indenture are fully
and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several and senior and unsecured basis by each of
the Parent, BATIF, BATNF and, unless its guarantee is released in accordance with the 2019
BATCAP Indenture, RAI.
The BATCAP Notes were issued in the following aggregate principal amounts, with outstanding
aggregate principal amounts as of December 31, 2024 and maturity dates as follows:
Series of BATCAP Initial aggregate Outstanding aggregate
Notes principal amount principal amount Maturity date
2031 5.834% Notes $850,000,000 $850,000,000 February 20, 2031
2034 Notes $850,000,000 $850,000,000 February 20, 2034
2030 6.343% Notes $1,000,000,000 $1,000,000,000 August 2, 2030
2033 Notes $1,250,000,000 $1,250,000,000 August 2, 2033
2043 Notes $750,000,000 $750,000,000 August 2, 2043
2053 Notes $1,000,000,000 $1,000,000,000 August 2, 2053
2032 7.750% Notes $600,000,000 $600,000,000 October 19, 2032
2032 4.742% Notes $900,000,000 $900,000,000 March 16, 2032
2052 Notes $600,000,000 $600,000,000 March 16, 2052
2028 Notes $1,750,000,000 $1,750,000,000 March 25, 2028
2031 2.726% Notes $1,250,000,000 $1,250,000,000 March 25, 2031
2040 Notes $750,000,000 $405,565,000 September 25, 2040
2050 3.984% Notes $1,000,000,000 $312,962,000 September 25, 2050
2027 4.700% Notes $900,000,000 $900,000,000 April 2, 2027
2030 4.906% Notes $1,000,000,000 $1,000,000,000 April 2, 2030
53
[[6543924]]
2050 5.282% Notes $500,000,000 $500,000,000 April 2, 2050
2026 Notes $1,000,000,000 $1,000,000,000 September 6, 2026
2029 3.462% Notes $500,000,000 $500,000,000 September 6, 2029
2049 Notes $1,000,000,000 $1,000,000,000 September 6, 2049
Interest
The Notes bear interest per annum as follows:
Series of BATCAP Notes Interest rate per annum
2031 5.834% Notes 5.834%
2034 Notes 6.000%
2030 6.343% Notes 6.343%
2033 Notes 6.421%
2043 Notes 7.079%
2053 Notes 7.081%
2032 7.750% Notes 7.750%
2032 4.742% Notes 4.742%
2052 Notes 5.650%
2028 Notes 2.259%
2031 2.726% Notes 2.726%
2040 Notes 3.734%
2050 3.984% Notes 3.984%
2027 4.700% Notes 4.700%
2030 4.906% Notes 4.906%
2050 5.282% Notes 5.282%
2026 Notes 3.215%
2029 3.462% Notes 3.462%
2049 Notes 4.758%
The BATCAP Notes will bear interest from the date of the initial issuance of such BATCAP
Notes or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or provided
for, payable semi-annually in arrear on each series’ respective Interest Payment Dates (as defined
in the table below) of each year, commencing on each series’ respective Initial Interest Payment
Date (as defined in the table below) until each series’ respective maturity date, unless previously
purchased and cancelled or redeemed by the Issuer, to the person in whose name any such
BATCAP Note is registered at the close of business on the 15th calendar day preceding each
Interest Payment Date, whether or not such day is a Business Day (each, a “Record Date”)
notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of such BATCAP Notes subsequent to the Record Date
and prior to such Interest Payment Date, except that, if and to the extent the Issuer shall default
in the payment of the interest due on such Interest Payment Date, and the applicable grace period
shall have expired, such defaulted interest may at the option of the Issuer be paid to the persons
in whose names such outstanding BATCAP Notes are registered at the close of business on a
subsequent Record Date (which shall not be less than five Business Days prior to the date of
payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice sent by or on behalf of the Issuer to the
holders of such BATCAP Notes, not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent Record Date.
54
[[6543924]]
Series of BATCAP Initial Interest Payment
Notes Interest Payment Dates Date
2031 5.834% Notes August 20 and February 20 August 20, 2024
2034 Notes August 20 and February 20 August 20, 2024
2030 6.343% Notes February 2 and August 2 February 2, 2024
2033 Notes February 2 and August 2 February 2, 2024
2043 Notes February 2 and August 2 February 2, 2024
2053 Notes February 2 and August 2 February 2, 2024
2032 7.750% Notes April 19 and October 19 April 19, 2023
2032 4.742% Notes March 16 and
September 16, 2022
September 16
2052 Notes March 16 and
September 16, 2022
September 16
2028 Notes March 25 and
March 25, 2021
September 25
2031 2.726% Notes March 25 and
March 25, 2021
September 25
2040 Notes March 25 and
March 25, 2021
September 25
2050 3.984% Notes March 25 and
March 25, 2021
September 25
2027 4.700% Notes April 2 and October 2 October 2, 2020
2030 4.906% Notes April 2 and October 2 October 2, 2020
2050 5.282% Notes April 2 and October 2 October 2, 2020
2026 Notes March 6 and September 6 March 6, 2020
2029 3.462% Notes March 6 and September 6 March 6, 2020
2049 Notes March 6 and September 6 March 6, 2020
Interest is computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, or in the
case of an incomplete month, the number of days elapsed. If the date on which any interest
payment or principal payment is to be made is not a Business Day, such payment will be made
on the next day which is a Business Day, without any further interest or other amounts being
paid or payable in connection therewith. A “Business Day” refers to any day which is not, in
London or New York City, or any other place of payment, a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a
day on which banking institutions are authorized or obligated by law or regulation to close.
Form and Denomination
The BATCAP Notes of each series were issued in fully registered form and only in minimum
denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, and were issued
initially as global notes representing the BATCAP Notes of each series (collectively, the “Global
Notes”). The Global Notes were (i) registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of
such Depositary, in each case for the credit to an account of a member of, or direct or indirect
participant in, the Depositary; and (ii) delivered to Citibank, N.A. as custodian for such
Depositary.
55
[[6543924]]
Further Issues
The aggregate principal amount of notes (including each series of BATCAP Notes) issuable
under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture (the “Notes”) is unlimited. The Issuer may, from time to
time, without notice to or the consent of the holders of the Notes, issue Notes of a new series or
“reopen” any series of the Notes (including any series of BATCAP Notes) and create and issue
additional Notes having substantially identical terms and conditions as the then-outstanding
Notes of a series (or in all respects except as to issue date, issue price and the date from which
interest, if any, shall accrue and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to an
officer’s certificate or any supplemental indenture relating thereto) so that the additional Notes
are consolidated and form a single series of Notes with the outstanding Notes of such series, as
the case may be, provided that if the additional Notes are not fungible with the outstanding Notes
of the relevant series for United States Federal income tax purposes, the additional Notes will
have separate CUSIPs, ISINs, or other identifying numbers.
Status of the Notes and Guarantees
The BATCAP Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer and rank pari
passu in right of payment among themselves and with all other direct, unsecured and
unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer (except those obligations preferred by statute or
operation of law). Each Guarantor fully and unconditionally guarantees, on a senior, unsecured
basis, the due and punctual payment (and not collectability) of the principal of and interest on the
BATCAP Notes (and the payment of additional amounts described under “ —Additional
Amounts” below) and other obligations under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture when and as the
same shall become due and payable, whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration,
call for redemption or otherwise. Each Guarantee is an unsecured and unsubordinated obligation
of the respective Guarantor and rank pari passu in right of payment with all other direct,
unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of such Guarantor (except those obligations preferred
by statute or operation of law). The Issuer and each Guarantor are subject to a negative pledge
with respect to certain types of indebtedness, which are discussed in “ —Covenants of the Issuer
and the Guarantors—Negative Pledge”.
Guarantees
Release
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture and the applicable supplemental indentures provide, that, without
the consent of the Trustee or the Noteholders, any Guarantor that is a subsidiary of the Parent (a
“Subsidiary Guarantor”), other than BATIF and BATNF, will automatically and unconditionally
be released from all obligations under its Guarantee, and such Guarantee shall thereupon
terminate and be discharged and of no further force or effect, in the event that (1) its guarantee of
all then outstanding notes issued under the EMTN Programme is released or (2) at substantially
the same time its Guarantee of the Notes is terminated, the Subsidiary Guarantor is released from
all obligations in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money for which such Subsidiary
Guarantor is an obligor (as a guarantor or borrower). For purposes of this paragraph, the amount
of a Subsidiary Guarantor’s indebtedness for borrowed money shall not include (A) the Notes
issued pursuant to the 2019 BATCAP Indenture (including the BATCAP Notes), (B) any other
56
[[6543924]]
debt the terms of which permit the termination of such Subsidiary Guarantor’s guarantee of such
debt under similar circumstances, as long as such Subsidiary Guarantor’s obligations in respect
of such other debt are terminated at substantially the same time as its Guarantee of the Notes
(including the BATCAP Notes), (C) any debt that is being refinanced at substantially the same
time that the Guarantee of the Notes (including the BATCAP Notes) is being released, provided
that any obligations of the relevant Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the debt that is incurred in
the refinancing shall be included in the calculation of the relevant Subsidiary Guarantor’s
indebtedness for borrowed money and (D) for the avoidance of doubt, any debt in respect of
which such Subsidiary Guarantor is an obligor (as a guarantor or borrower) (i) between or among
the Parent and any subsidiary or subsidiaries thereof or (ii) between or among any subsidiaries of
the Parent.
As of the date of this summary, RAI is the only Subsidiary Guarantor to which the above
provision is relevant. Under the EMTN Programme, RAI’s guarantee is released if at any time
the aggregate amount of indebtedness for borrowed money for which the Subsidiary Guarantor is
an obligor does not exceed 10% of the outstanding long-term debt of BAT as reflected in the
balance sheet included in BAT’s most recent publicly released interim or annual consolidated
financial statements, as evidenced by a certificate to such effect addressed to the trustee under
the EMTN Programme and signed by a director of BAT.
Additional Amounts
Each of the Parent, BATIF and BATNF will make payments pursuant to the applicable
Guarantee without withholding or deduction for or on account of any present or future tax, levy,
impost or other similar governmental charge (“Taxes”) imposed, assessed, levied or collected by
or for the account of the United Kingdom (in the case of a payment by the Parent or BATIF) or
The Netherlands (in the case of a payment by BATNF), including in each case any political
subdivision thereof or any authority thereof having the power to tax (a “Relevant Taxing
Jurisdiction”), unless such withholding or deduction is required by law.
If any such Guarantor is required by a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction to so withhold or deduct
such Taxes, such Guarantor will pay to the holder such additional amounts (“Additional
Amounts”) as will result in the receipt by the holder of such amounts as would have been
received by it if no such withholding or deduction of Taxes had been required; provided,
however, that no Guarantor shall be required to pay any Additional Amounts for or on account
of:
(a) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the Holder or beneficial owner of the applicable Note or Guarantee (or a
fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of, or possessor of a power
over, such Holder, if such Holder is an estate, trust, partnership or corporation)
being or having been a domiciliary, national or resident of, or engaging or having
been engaged in a trade or business or maintaining or having maintained a
permanent establishment or being or having been physically present in, a Relevant
Taxing Jurisdiction or otherwise having or having had some connection with a
Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction other than the holding or ownership of, or the
57
[[6543924]]
collection of principal of, and premium (if any) or interest on, a Note or the
enforcement of the applicable Note or Guarantee, as the case may be;
(b) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the fact that, where presentation is required in order to receive payment, the
applicable Note or Guarantee was presented more than 30 days after the date on
which such payment became due and payable or was provided for, whichever is
later, except to the extent that the Holder or beneficial owner thereof would have
been entitled to Additional Amounts had the applicable Note or Guarantee been
presented for payment on any day during such 30-day period;
(c) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, personal property or similar Taxes;
(d) any Taxes that are payable otherwise than by withholding or deduction from
payments on or in respect of the applicable Note or Guarantee;
(e) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the failure by the Holder or the beneficial owner of the applicable Guarantee
to (i) provide any certification, identification, information, documents or other
evidence concerning the nationality, residence or identity of the Holder or the
beneficial owner or its connection with a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction; or (ii)
make any valid or timely declaration or claim or satisfy any other reporting,
information or procedural requirements relating to such matters if, in either case,
compliance is required by statute, regulation, relevant income tax treaty or
administrative practice of a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction as a condition to relief or
exemption from such Taxes;
(f) any Taxes imposed or withheld pursuant to Sections 1471 through 1474 of the
Code (or any amended or successor provisions), any U.S. Treasury regulations
promulgated thereunder, any official interpretations thereof or any agreements
entered into in connection with the implementation thereof (“FATCA
Withholding”); or
(g) any combination of the Taxes described in clauses (a) through (f) above.
In addition, in the case of the 2031 5.834% Notes, the 2034 Notes, the 2030 6.343% Notes, the
2033 Notes, the 2043 Notes, the 2053 Notes, the 2032 7.750% Notes, the 2032 4.742% Notes,
the 2052 Notes, the 2028 Notes, the 2031 2.726% Notes, the 2040 Notes, the 2050 3.984%
Notes, the 2027 4.700% Notes, the 2030 4.906% Notes, and the 2050 5.282% Notes, no
Guarantor shall be required to pay any Additional Amounts for or on account of any taxes
imposed or to be withheld pursuant to the Dutch Withholding Tax Act 2021 (Wet bronbelasting
2021). In addition, Additional Amounts will not be paid with respect to any payment of the
principal of, or premium (if any) or interest on, any Note or any payment pursuant to the
applicable Guarantee to any Holder that is a fiduciary, a partnership, a limited liability company
or any person other than the sole beneficial owner of such payment to the extent a beneficiary or
settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership, an interest holder in such
limited liability company or a beneficial owner that would not have been entitled to such
58
[[6543924]]
amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member, interest holder or beneficial owner been the
Holder of the applicable Note or Guarantee.
Unless otherwise stated, references in any context to the payment of principal of, and premium
(if any) or interest on, any Note, or to any payment pursuant to a Guarantee will be deemed to
include payment of Additional Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts
are, were or would be payable in respect thereof.
Redemption
The Notes are subject to optional redemption by the Issuer as described below under “—
Optional Redemption”. The Notes are also subject to optional redemption by the Issuer in the
event of certain changes in tax laws applicable to payments in respect of the Notes as described
below under “—Redemption for Tax Reasons”.
Optional Redemption of the 2031 5.834% Notes, 2034 Notes, 2030 6.343% Notes, 2033 Notes,
2043 Notes, 2053 Notes, 2032 7.750% Notes, 2032 4.742% Notes and 2052 Notes (the “post-
2021 BATCAP Notes”)
The Issuer may redeem the post-2021 BATCAP Notes, in whole or in part, at the Issuer’s option,
at any time and from time to time before the applicable Par Call Date (as defined below), at a
redemption price equal to the greater of (x) 100% of the principal amount of the series of post-
2021 BATCAP Notes to be redeemed and (y) the sum of the present values of the applicable
Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) discounted to the date of redemption (the
“Redemption Date”) on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-
day months or, in the case of an incomplete month, the number of days elapsed) at the Treasury
Rate (as defined below) plus, in the case of each respective series of post-2021 BATCAP Notes
as follows:
2031 5.834% Notes 25 basis points
2034 Notes 30 basis points
2030 6.343% Notes 35 basis points
2033 Notes 40 basis points
2043 Notes 45 basis points
2053 Notes 50 basis points
2032 7.750% Notes 50 basis points
2032 4.742% Notes 40 basis points
2052 Notes 50 basis points
together with, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the post-2021
BATCAP Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
If the Issuer elects to redeem a series of post-2021 BATCAP Notes on or after the applicable Par
Call Date, the Issuer will pay an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount of the post-2021
BATCAP Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the
Redemption Date.
59
[[6543924]]
In connection with such optional redemption the following defined terms apply:
• Par Call Date means (i) December 20, 2030 with respect to any 2031 5.834% Notes (two
months prior to the maturity date of the 2031 5.834% Notes), (ii) November 20, 2033
with respect to any 2034 Notes (three months prior to the maturity date of the 2034
Notes), (iii) June 2, 2030 with respect to any 2030 6.343% Notes (two months prior to the
maturity date of the 2030 6.343% Notes), (iv) May 2, 2033 with respect to any 2033
Notes (three months prior to the maturity date of the 2033 Notes), (v) February 2, 2043
with respect to any 2043 Notes (six months prior to the maturity date of the 2043 Notes),
(vi) February 2, 2053 with respect to any 2053 Notes (six months prior to the maturity
date of the 2053 Notes), (vii) July 19, 2032 with respect to any 2032 7.750% Notes (three
months prior to the maturity date of the 2032 7.750% Notes), (viii) December 16, 2031
with respect to any 2032 4.742% Notes (three months prior to the maturity date of the
2032 4.742% Notes) and (ix) September 16, 2051 with respect to any 2052 Notes (six
months prior to the maturity date of the 2052 Notes).
• Remaining Scheduled Payments means, with respect to each post-2021 BATCAP Note to
be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest
thereon that would be due from and including the related Redemption Date, but for such
redemption, to but excluding the relevant Par Call Date; provided, however, that if that
Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such post-2021
BATCAP Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon
will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to, but excluding, that
Redemption Date.
• Treasury Rate means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the yield determined by the
Issuer in accordance with the following two paragraphs:
(1) The Treasury Rate shall be determined by the Issuer after 4:15 p.m., New York
City time (or after such time as yields on U.S. government securities are posted
daily by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), on the third
Business Day preceding the Redemption Date based upon the yield or yields for
the most recent day that appear after such time on such day in the most recent
statistical release published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System designated as “Selected Interest Rates (Daily)—H.15” (or any successor
designation or publication) (“H.15”) under the caption “U.S. government
securities—Treasury constant maturities—Nominal” (or any successor caption or
heading) (“H.15 TCM”). In determining the Treasury Rate, the Issuer shall select,
as applicable: (1) the yield for the Treasury constant maturity on H.15 exactly
equal to the period from the redemption date to the Par Call Date (the “Remaining
Life”); or (2) if there is no such Treasury constant maturity on H.15 exactly equal
to the Remaining Life, the two yields—one yield corresponding to the Treasury
constant maturity on H.15 immediately shorter than and one yield corresponding
to the Treasury constant maturity on H.15 immediately longer than the Remaining
Life—and shall interpolate to the Par Call Date on a straight-line basis (using the
actual number of days) using such yields and rounding the result to three decimal
places; or (3) if there is no such Treasury constant maturity on H.15 shorter than
60
[[6543924]]
or longer than the Remaining Life, the yield for the single Treasury constant
maturity on H.15 closest to the Remaining Life. For purposes of this paragraph,
the applicable Treasury constant maturity or maturities on H.15 shall be deemed
to have a maturity date equal to the relevant number of months or years, as
applicable, of such Treasury constant maturity from the Redemption Date.
(2) If on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date H.15 TCM is no
longer published, the Issuer shall calculate the Treasury Rate based on the rate per
annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity at 11:00 a.m., New
York City time, on the second business day preceding such Redemption Date of
the United States Treasury security maturing on, or with a maturity that is closest
to, the Par Call Date, as applicable. If there is no United States Treasury security
maturing on the Par Call Date but there are two or more United States Treasury
securities with a maturity date equally distant from the Par Call Date, one with a
maturity date preceding the Par Call Date and one with a maturity date following
the Par Call Date, the Issuer shall select the United States Treasury security with a
maturity date preceding the Par Call Date. If there are two or more United States
Treasury securities maturing on the Par Call Date or two or more United States
Treasury securities meeting the criteria of the preceding sentence, the Issuer shall
select from among these two or more United States Treasury securities the United
States Treasury security that is trading closest to par based upon the average of
the bid and asked prices for such United States Treasury securities at 11:00 a.m.,
New York City time. In determining the Treasury Rate in accordance with the
terms of this paragraph, the semi-annual yield to maturity of the applicable United
States Treasury security shall be based upon the average of the bid and asked
prices (expressed as a percentage of principal amount) at 11:00 a.m., New York
City time, of such United States Treasury security, and rounded to three decimal
places.
Notice of any optional redemption will be given in accordance with the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture (as supplemented by the supplemental indentures pursuant to which the post-2021
BATCAP Notes were issued) at least 10 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption
Date to each holder of the post-2021 BATCAP Notes to be redeemed. Any redemption may, at
the Issuer’s sole discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent. In
the event of a conditional redemption, the notice of conditional redemption shall reflect and
specify the conditions to the redemption. Once the notice of redemption is delivered, post-2021
BATCAP Notes called for redemption shall, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable
conditions, become irrevocably due and payable on the Redemption Date.
If less than all the post-2021 BATCAP Notes of a series are to be redeemed, in the case of a
redemption at the Issuer’s option as discussed in this section, the post-2021 BATCAP Notes to
be redeemed shall be selected in accordance with applicable procedures of DTC.
Upon presentation of any post-2021 BATCAP Note redeemed in part only, the Issuer will
execute and upon receipt of a written direction from the Issuer, the Paying Agent will
authenticate and deliver (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to, or on, the order of the
holder thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new post-2021 BATCAP Note of authorized
61
[[6543924]]
denominations in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the post-2021 BATCAP
Note so presented.
The Issuer’s actions and determinations in determining the redemption price shall be conclusive
and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Optional Redemption of the 2028 Notes, 2031 2.726% Notes, 2040 Notes, 2050 3.984% Notes,
2027 4.700% Notes, 2030 4.906% Notes, 2050 5.382% Notes, 2026 Notes, 2029 3.462% Notes
and 2049 Notes (the “pre-2022 BATCAP Notes”)
The Issuer may redeem the pre-2022 BATCAP Notes, in whole or in part, at the Issuer’s option,
at any time and from time to time before the applicable Par Call Date (as defined below), at a
redemption price equal to the greater of (x) 100% of the principal amount of the series of pre-
2022 BATCAP Notes to be redeemed and (y) as determined by the Independent Investment
Banker (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the applicable Remaining Scheduled
Payments (as defined below) discounted to the date of redemption (the “Redemption Date”) on a
semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months or, in the case
of an incomplete month, the number of days elapsed) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below)
plus, in the case of each respective series of pre-2022 BATCAP Notes as follows:
2028 Notes 30 basis points
2031 2.726% Notes 35 basis points
2040 Notes 35 basis points
2050 3.984% Notes 40 basis points
2027 4.700% Notes 50 basis points
2030 4.906% Notes 50 basis points
2050 5.282% Notes 50 basis points
2026 Notes 30 basis points
2029 3.462% Notes 30 basis points
2049 Notes 45 basis points
together with, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the pre-2022
BATCAP Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
If the Issuer elects to redeem a series of the pre-2022 BATCAP Notes on or after the applicable
Par Call Date, the Issuer will pay an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount of the pre-
2022 BATCAP Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the
date of redemption.
In connection with such optional redemption the following defined terms apply:
• Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the
Independent Investment Banker that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in
accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt
securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the applicable pre-2022
BATCAP Notes to the relevant Par Call Date.
62
[[6543924]]
• Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average
of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding
the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations or (B) if the
Independent Investment Banker for the applicable pre-2022 BATCAP Notes obtains
fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such
Quotations.
• Independent Investment Banker means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers (as defined
below) appointed by the Issuer to act as the “Independent Investment Banker”.
• Par Call Date means (i) January 25, 2028, with respect to any 2028 Notes (two months
prior to the maturity date of the 2028 Notes), (ii) December 25, 2030, with respect to any
2031 2.726% Notes (three months prior to the maturity date of the 2031 2.726% Notes),
(iii) March 25, 2040, with respect to any 2040 Notes (six months prior to the maturity
date of the 2040 Notes), (iv) March 25, 2050, with respect to any 2050 3.984% Notes (six
months prior to the maturity date of the 2050 3.984% Notes), (v) February 2, 2027 with
respect to any 2027 4.700% Notes (two months prior to the maturity date of the 2027
4.700% Notes), (vi) January 2, 2030 with respect to any 2030 4.906% Notes (three
months prior to the maturity date of the 2030 4.906% Notes), (vii) October 2, 2049 with
respect to any 2050 5.282% Notes (six months prior to the maturity date of the 2050
5.282% Notes), (viii) July 6, 2026 with respect to any 2026 Notes (two months prior to
the maturity date of the 2026 Notes), (ix) June 6, 2029 with respect to any 2029 3.462%
Notes (three months prior to the maturity date of the 2029 3.462% Notes) and (x) March
6, 2049 with respect to any 2049 Notes (six months prior to the maturity date of the 2049
Notes).
• Reference Treasury Dealer means, in case of the 2028 Notes, the 2031 2.726% Notes, the
2040 Notes and the 2050 3.984% Notes, each of BofA Securities, Inc., Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, NatWest
Markets Securities Inc. and SG Americas Securities, LLC and their respective successors
and two other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury
Dealers specified from time to time by the Issuer, in case of the 2027 4.700% Notes, the
2030 4.906% Notes and the 2050 5.282% Notes, each of Barclays Capital Inc., BofA
Securities, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Mizuho Securities USA LLC and their
respective successors and two other nationally recognized investment banking firms that
are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by the Issuer, and in case of the
2026 Notes, the 2029 3.462% Notes, and the 2049 Notes, each of BofA Securities, Inc.,
Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and their respective successors and two other nationally
recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from
time to time by the Issuer; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to
be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a “Primary Treasury
Dealer”), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another nationally recognized investment
banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
• Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation means, with respect to each Reference Treasury
Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent
63
[[6543924]]
Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the
Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New
York City time, on the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date.
• Remaining Scheduled Payments means, with respect to each pre-2022 BATCAP Note to
be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest
thereon that would be due from and including the related Redemption Date, but for such
redemption, to but excluding the relevant Par Call Date; provided, however, that if that
Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such pre-2022
BATCAP Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon
will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to that Redemption Date.
• Treasury Rate means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to
the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third Business Day
immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue,
assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
Notice of any optional redemption will be given in accordance with the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture at least 10 days but not more than 30 days before the Redemption Date to each holder
of the Notes to be redeemed. Any redemption may, at the Issuer’s sole discretion, be subject to
the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent. In the event of a conditional redemption,
the notice of conditional redemption shall reflect and specify the conditions to the redemption.
Once the notice of redemption is delivered, pre-2022 BATCAP Notes called for redemption
shall, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable conditions, become irrevocably due and
payable on the Redemption Date.
If less than all the pre-2022 BATCAP Notes of a series are to be redeemed, in the case of a
redemption at the Issuer’s option as discussed in this section, the pre-2022 BATCAP Notes to be
redeemed shall be selected in accordance with applicable procedures of DTC.
Upon presentation of any pre-2022 BATCAP Note redeemed in part only, the Issuer will execute
and upon receipt of a written direction from the Issuer, the Paying Agent will authenticate and
deliver (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to, or on, the order of the holder thereof, at the
expense of the Issuer, a new pre-2022 BATCAP Note of authorized denominations in principal
amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the pre-2022 BATCAP Note so presented.
The redemption price shall be calculated by the Independent Investment Banker and the Issuer,
and the Trustee and any agent shall be entitled to rely on such calculation.
Redemption for Tax Reasons
Each series of Notes (including each series of BATCAP Notes) is also redeemable by the Issuer,
in whole but not in part, at 100% of the principal amount of such Notes plus any accrued and
unpaid interest (including any Additional Amounts) to the applicable date fixed for such
redemption pursuant to the terms of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture or such series of Notes (the
64
[[6543924]]
“Redemption Date”) at the Issuer’s option at any time prior to their maturity if, due to a Change
in Tax Law (as defined below): (i) the Issuer or any Guarantor, in accordance with the terms of
the applicable Notes or applicable Guarantee, has, or would, become obligated to pay any
Additional Amounts to the Holders of the Notes of that series; (ii) in the case of any Guarantor,
(A) the Parent would be unable, for reasons outside its control, to procure payment by the Issuer
or any other Guarantor or (B) the procuring of such payment by the Issuer and each such other
Guarantor would be subject to withholding Taxes imposed by a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction;
and (iii) such obligation cannot otherwise be avoided by such Guarantor, the Parent or the Issuer,
taking reasonable measures available to it. In such case, the Issuer may redeem the applicable
Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days’ notice as provided in “ —Notice” below, at
100% of the principal amount of such Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption
Date (including Additional Amounts); provided that (a) no such notice of redemption shall be
given earlier than 90 days prior to the earliest date on which the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the
case may be, would be obligated to pay any such Additional Amounts in respect of the
applicable Notes or applicable Guarantee, as applicable, then due; and (b) at the time such notice
is given, such obligation to pay such Additional Amounts remains in effect. The Issuer’s right to
redeem the applicable Notes shall continue as long as the Issuer or any Guarantor is obligated to
pay such Additional Amounts, notwithstanding that the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the case may
be, shall have made payments of Additional Amounts. Prior to the giving of any such notice of
redemption, the Issuer must deliver to the Trustee: (i) an officer’s certificate stating that the
Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the
conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer to so redeem have occurred; and (ii) an opinion of
independent counsel or an independent accountant of recognized standing, selected by the Issuer
or any Guarantor, as applicable, with respect to tax matters of the Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction to
the effect that the Issuer or such Guarantor has, or would, become obligated to pay such
Additional Amounts as a result of such Change in Tax Law.
For the purposes hereof, “Change in Tax Law” shall mean: (i) any changes in, or amendment to,
any law of a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction (including any regulations or rulings promulgated
thereunder and including, for this purpose, any treaty entered into by the Relevant Taxing
Jurisdiction) or any amendment to or change in the application or official interpretation
(including judicial or administrative interpretation) of such law, which change or amendment
becomes effective or, in the case of an official interpretation, is announced, on or after the first
date of issuance of Notes of such series; or (ii) if the Issuer or any Guarantor consolidates,
merges, amalgamates or combines with, or transfers or leases its assets substantially as an
entirety to, any person that is incorporated or tax resident under the laws of any jurisdiction other
than a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction (a “successor”) and as a consequence thereof such person
becomes the successor obligor to the Issuer or such Guarantor in respect of Additional Amounts
that may become payable (in which case, for purposes of this redemption provision, all
references to the Issuer or such Guarantor shall be deemed to be and include references to such
person), any change in, or amendment to, any law of the jurisdiction of organization or tax
residence of such successor, or the jurisdiction through which payments will be made by the
successor, or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or thereon for purposes of
taxation (including any regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder and including, for this
purpose, any treaty entered into by such jurisdiction) or any amendment to or change in the
application or official interpretation (including judicial or administrative interpretation) of such
law, which change or amendment becomes effective or, in the case of an official interpretation, is
65
[[6543924]]
announced, on or after the date of such consolidation, merger, amalgamation, combination or
other transaction.
General
On or before any Redemption Date (as defined above), the Issuer shall deposit with the Paying
Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued and unpaid interest on the
BATCAP Notes to be redeemed on such date.
On and after any Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the BATCAP Notes or any
portion thereof called for redemption.
Maturity
Unless previously purchased or redeemed by the Issuer, and cancelled, the principal amount of
each respective series of BATCAP Notes shall mature on:
Series of BATCAP Notes Maturity date
2031 5.834% Notes February 20, 2031
2034 Notes February 20, 2034
2030 6.343% Notes August 2, 2030
2033 Notes August 2, 2033
2043 Notes August 2, 2043
2053 Notes August 2, 2053
2032 7.750% Notes October 19, 2032
2032 4.742% Notes March 16, 2032
2052 Notes March 16, 2052
2028 Notes March 25, 2028
2031 2.726% Notes March 25, 2031
2040 Notes September 25, 2040
2050 3.984% Notes September 25, 2050
2027 4.700% Notes April 2, 2027
2030 4.906% Notes April 2, 2030
2050 5.282% Notes April 2, 2050
2026 Notes September 6, 2026
2029 3.462% Notes September 6, 2029
2049 Notes September 6, 2049
in an amount equal, in each case, to their principal amount, with accrued and unpaid interest to,
but excluding, such date.
66
[[6543924]]
Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors
Reacquisition
There is no restriction on the ability of the Issuer to purchase or repurchase BATCAP Notes,
provided, that any BATCAP Notes so repurchased shall be cancelled and not reissued.
Sinking Fund
There is no provision for a sinking fund for any of the Notes.
Certain Definitions
Set forth below is a summary of certain of the defined terms used in the BATCAP Notes, the
2019 BATCAP Indenture and the applicable supplemental indentures. You should refer to the
BATCAP Notes, the 2019 BATCAP Indenture and applicable supplemental indentures for the
full definition of all defined terms as well as any other terms used herein for which no definition
is provided.
“Dollar” or “$” means United States Dollars, or such other money of the United States that at the
time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
“EMTN Programme” means the Euro Medium Term Note Programme to which BATCAP,
BATIF and BATNF are parties as the issuers under the programme and notes issued thereunder
are guaranteed by the Parent, each of the issuers thereunder (except when it is the relevant issuer)
and RAI, as amended from time to time.
“Original Issue Discount Note” means any Note that is issued with “original issue discount”
within the meaning of Section 1273(a) of the Code and Treasury Regulations promulgated
thereunder and any other Note designated by the Company as issued with original issue discount
for United States federal income tax purposes.
“Person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited
liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any
agency or political subdivision thereof.
“Quoted Borrowing” means any indebtedness which: (i) is represented by notes, debentures or
other securities issued otherwise than to constitute or represent advances made by banks and/or
other lending institutions; (ii) is denominated, or confers any right to payment of principal and/or
interest, in or by reference to any currency other than the currency of the country in which the
issuer of the indebtedness has its principal place of business or is denominated, or confers any
right to payment of principal and/or interest, in or by reference to the currency of such country
but is sold or subscribed by or on behalf of, or by agreement with, the issuer of such
indebtedness as to over 20% outside such country; and (iii) at its date of issue is, or is intended
by the issuer of such indebtedness to become, quoted, listed, traded or dealt in on any stock
exchange or other organized and regulated securities market in any part of the world.
67
[[6543924]]
Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors
Negative Pledge
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture provides that so long as any of the Notes (including any of the
BATCAP Notes) remains outstanding, neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor will secure or allow
to be secured any Quoted Borrowing issued by the Issuer or any Guarantor or any payment under
any guarantee by any of them of any such Quoted Borrowing by any mortgage, charge, pledge or
lien (other than arising by operation of law) upon any of its undertaking or assets, whether
present or future, unless at the same time the same mortgage, charge, pledge or lien is extended,
or security which is not materially less beneficial to the holders of the Notes than the security
given as aforesaid or which shall be approved by consent of the holders of not less than 75% in
aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding is extended or created (as the
case may be), to secure equally and ratably the principal of, and interest on, and all other
payments (if any) in respect of the Notes.
Limitation on Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations
Under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, so long as any of the Notes (including any of the BATCAP
Notes) remains outstanding thereunder, neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor may consolidate
with or merge into any other person or sell, convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets as
an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any person (other than any sale or conveyance by
way of a lease in the ordinary course of business), unless: (i) in the case of the Issuer, any
successor person assumes the Issuer’s obligations on the Notes (including the BATCAP Notes)
and under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture and, in the case of any Guarantor, any successor person
assumes such Guarantor’s obligations on the Guarantee and under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture;
(ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which,
after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and
be continuing; (iii) such successor person is organized under the laws of the United States or any
State thereof, the United Kingdom, The Netherlands or any other country that is a member of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development as of the date of such succession; (iv)
such successor person agrees to pay any Additional Amounts with respect to any withholding or
deduction of Taxes or any payment on the Notes (including the BATCAP Notes) or Guarantees
(as applicable) imposed by the jurisdiction (other than the United States, unless otherwise
required by clause (i) of this paragraph) in which such successor person is incorporated or
otherwise a resident for tax purposes subject to the exceptions described under “—Additional
Amounts” (for the avoidance of doubt, solely to the extent such successor person is the Issuer,
changes will be made to the 2019 BATCAP Indenture as are necessary to obligate the Issuer to
pay such Additional Amount); and (v) if as a result of such consolidation or merger or such sale,
conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor would become
subject to a mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or similar encumbrance to secure payment of
any indebtedness for borrowed money of the Issuer or any Guarantor which would not be
permitted by the Notes of a series or under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the Issuer or any
Guarantor or such successor person, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to effectively secure the Notes of such series equally and ratably with (or prior to) all
indebtedness for borrowed money secured thereby.
68
[[6543924]]
The limitation on mergers, consolidations, amalgamations and combinations described in this
section “—Limitation on Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations” shall not
apply to any consolidation, merger, amalgamation or combination in which the Issuer or any
Guarantor is the surviving corporation except that, in such case, the provisions of (ii) and (v)
above shall apply such that: (x) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of
Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of
Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and (y) if as a result of such consolidation or
merger or such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the Issuer or any
Guarantor would become subject to a mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or similar
encumbrance to secure payment of any indebtedness for borrowed money of the Issuer or any
Guarantor which would not be permitted by the Notes or under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the
Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be necessary to
effectively secure the Notes equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness for borrowed
money secured thereby.
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture does not contain covenants or other provisions to afford protection
to holders of the Notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction or a change in control of the
Issuer or any Guarantor except as provided above.
Upon certain mergers or consolidations involving the Issuer or any Guarantor, or upon certain
sales or conveyances of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor, the
obligations of the Issuer or such Guarantor, under the applicable Notes or the applicable
Guarantee, shall be assumed by the person formed by such merger or consolidation or which
shall have acquired such assets and upon such assumptions such person shall succeed to and be
substituted for the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the case may be, and then the Issuer or such
Guarantor will (except in the case of a lease) be relieved of all obligations and covenants under
the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes and the applicable Guarantee, as the case may be. The
terms “Issuer” and “Guarantor”, as used in the Notes and the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, also
refer to any such successors or assigns so substituted.
Although there is a limited body of case law interpreting the phrase “entirety or substantially as
an entirety”, there is no precise established definition of the phrase under applicable law.
Accordingly, in certain circumstances, there may be a degree of uncertainty as to whether a
particular transaction would involve a disposition of “entirety or substantially as an entirety” of
the Issuer’s assets and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Events of Default
Each of the following events shall be an “Event of Default” with respect to any series of the
Notes (including any series of the BATCAP Notes):
(i) Non-Payment: default is made in the payment of: (a) any installment of interest
(excluding Additional Amounts) upon any applicable Note as and when the same
shall become due and payable, and there is a continuance of such default for a
period of 14 days or more; (b) applicable Additional Amounts as and when the
same shall become due and payable, and there is a continuance of such default for
a period of 14 days; or (c) all or any part of the principal or premium, if any, of
69
[[6543924]]
any applicable Note as and when the same shall become due and payable either at
maturity, upon any redemption, by declaration or otherwise, and there is a
continuance of such default for a period of three days;
(ii) Breach of Other Obligations: the Issuer or any Guarantor does not perform or
comply with any one or more of its other obligations under the applicable Notes
or the 2019 BATCAP Indenture (other than those described in paragraph (i)
above) which is not remedied within 30 days (unless a longer period is specified
in the 2019 BATCAP Indenture) after written notice of such default shall have
been given to the Issuer by the Trustee or to the Issuer and the Trustee by the
holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes;
(iii) Cross-Default: (a) any other present or future indebtedness for borrowed money
of the Issuer or any Guarantor, other than the Notes issued by the Issuer, becomes
due and payable prior to its stated maturity by reason of any default or event of
default in respect thereof by the Issuer or any Guarantor and remains unpaid; or
(b) any such indebtedness for borrowed money is not paid when due or, as the
case may be, within any applicable grace period; or (c) the Issuer or any
Guarantor fails to pay when due and called upon (after the expiry of any
applicable grace period) any amount payable by it under any present or future
guarantee for, or indemnity in respect of, any indebtedness for borrowed money
and which remains unpaid; provided that (x) payment of the indebtedness for
borrowed money is not being contested in good faith and in accordance with legal
advice or (y) the aggregate amount of the indebtedness for borrowed money,
guarantees and indemnities in respect of which one or more of the events
mentioned above in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph (iii) has or have
occurred and is or are continuing, equals or exceeds £750 million or its equivalent
in any other currency of the indebtedness for borrowed money or, if greater,
1.25% of the Total Equity of the Parent, as set out in the “Total Equity” line item
in the most recent consolidated group balance sheet of the Parent and its
subsidiaries in the Parent’s most recent annual report;
(iv) Cessation of Guarantees: any Guarantee ceases to be in full force and effect
(except as contemplated by the terms of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, including
as described above under “—Guarantees—Release”) or any Guarantor denies or
disaffirms in writing its obligations under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture or
Guarantee;
(v) Enforcement Proceedings: a distress or execution or other legal process is levied
or enforced against or an encumbrancer takes possession of or a receiver,
administrative receiver or other similar officer is appointed of the whole or a part
of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor which is substantial in relation to the
BAT Group taken as a whole and is not discharged, stayed, removed or paid out
within 45 days after such execution or appointment;
(vi) Security Enforced: any mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other encumbrance,
present or future, created or assumed by the Issuer or any Guarantor becomes
70
[[6543924]]
enforceable against all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer or any
Guarantor, and any step is taken to enforce it (including the taking of possession
or the appointment of a receiver, administrative receiver, manager or other similar
person) and is not discharged within 45 days;
(vii) Insolvency: the Issuer or any Guarantor is insolvent or bankrupt or unable to pay
its debts (in respect of companies incorporated in England and Wales, within the
meaning of Section 123(1)(b) or (e) or Section 123(2) of the UK Insolvency Act
1986), stops, suspends or threatens to stop or suspend payment of all or a material
part of its debts, proposes or makes a general assignment or an arrangement or
composition (otherwise than for the purposes of reconstruction, amalgamation,
reorganization, merger or consolidation or other similar arrangement) with or for
the benefit of its creditors in respect of any of such debts or a moratorium is
agreed or declared in respect of or affecting all or a material part of the debts of
the Issuer;
(viii) Winding-up: an order is made or an effective resolution passed for the winding-up
or dissolution or administration of the Issuer or any Guarantor, or the Issuer or
any Guarantor shall apply or petition for a winding-up or administration order in
respect of itself or ceases or threatens to cease to carry on all or substantially all of
its business or operations, in each case except for the purpose of and followed by
a reconstruction, amalgamation, reorganization, merger or consolidation or other
similar arrangement; or
(ix) Analogous Events: any event occurs that under the laws of any relevant
jurisdiction has an analogous effect to any of the events referred to in any of the
foregoing paragraphs (vii) and (viii).
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture provides that if an Event of Default occurs and is continuing with
respect to the Notes of any series then outstanding, then and in each and every such case (other
than certain Events of Default specified in paragraphs (vii), (viii) and (ix) above with respect to
the Issuer or any Guarantor), unless the principal of all the Notes of such series shall have
already become due and payable, the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount
of the Notes of such affected series then outstanding, by notice in writing to the Issuer, each
Guarantor and the Trustee, may declare the entire principal amount of all Notes of such series
and interest accrued and unpaid thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon
any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable, without any further
declaration or other act on the part of any holder. If certain Events of Default described in
paragraph (vii), (viii) or (ix) above occur with respect to the Issuer or any Guarantor and are
continuing with respect to a series of Notes, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid
interest on all the Notes of such series issued pursuant to the 2019 BATCAP Indenture shall
become immediately due and payable, without any declaration or other act on the part of the
Trustee or any holder. Under certain circumstances, the holders of a majority in aggregate
principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of such series, by written notice to the Issuer,
each Guarantor and the Trustee, may waive defaults and rescind and annul declarations of
acceleration and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend
to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impart any right consequent thereon.
71
[[6543924]]
The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of any series of Notes then outstanding
will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any
remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with
respect to the Notes of such series, subject to certain limitations to be specified in the 2019
BATCAP Indenture, including providing to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it.
An Event of Default with respect to any series of Notes would not necessarily constitute an event
of default with respect to the other series of Notes.
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture provides that notwithstanding the foregoing provisions described
under “—Events of Default”, if the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or Additional
Amounts with respect to any Note is payable in a currency or currencies other than Dollars and
such currency or currencies are not available to the Issuer or any Guarantor for making payment
thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of
the Issuer or such Guarantor (a “Conversion Event”), the Issuer and the Guarantor will be
entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Notes by making such payment in Dollars in
an amount equal to the Dollar equivalent of the amount payable in such other currency, as
determined by the Issuer or the Guarantor making such payment, as the case may be, based on
the Exchange Rate on the date of such payment, or, if such rate is not then available, on the basis
of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, any
payment made under such circumstances in Dollars where the required payment is in a currency
other than Dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture.
Promptly after the occurrence of a Conversion Event, the Issuer or the relevant Guarantor shall
give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Paying Agent; and the Trustee, promptly
after receipt of such notice, shall give notice thereof in the manner provided in the 2019
BATCAP Indenture to the Holders of the relevant series of Notes. Promptly after the making of
any payment in Dollars as a result of a Conversion Event, the Issuer or the Guarantor making
such payment, as the case may be, shall give notice in the manner provided in the 2019
BATCAP Indenture to the Holders, setting forth the applicable Exchange Rate and describing the
calculation of such payments.
No holder of the Notes of a series will have any right to institute any action or proceeding at law
or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise upon or under or with respect to the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture, or for the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar
official or for any other remedy under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture (except suits for the
enforcement of payment of overdue principal or interest) unless (1) the holder of a Note gives to
the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default, (2) the holders of at least 25% in
principal amount of the outstanding Notes of such series have made a written request to the
Trustee to institute such proceeding as Trustee, (3) the holder or holders of Notes offer, and if
requested, provide to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability
or expense, (4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the
request and the offer of indemnity and (5) during such 60-day period the holders of a majority in
aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes of such series have not given the Trustee a
direction inconsistent with the request. The holder of a Note may not use the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture to prejudice the rights of another holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority
over another holder of a Note (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative
72
[[6543924]]
duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such
holders).
Satisfaction and Discharge
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture provides that BAT may, subject to satisfying certain conditions,
discharge certain obligations to the holders of Notes of any series of Notes that have not already
been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation and that either have become due and payable or
will become due and payable within one year (or scheduled for redemption within one year) by
depositing with the Trustee or Paying Agent, in trust, funds in an amount sufficient to pay the
entire indebtedness on such series of Notes in respect of principal and premium, if any, and
interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (if such Notes have become due and payable) or to the
maturity thereof or redemption date, as the case may be, along with an officer’s certificate and an
opinion of counsel stating that all conditions precedent relating to the satisfaction and discharge
of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture have been complied with.
Legal Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture provides that the Issuer will have the option either (a) to be
deemed (together with each Guarantor) to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness
represented by, and obligations under, a series of Notes and the applicable Guarantees and to
have satisfied all the obligations under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture relating to the series of
Notes (except for certain obligations, including those relating to the defeasance trust and
obligations to register the transfer or exchange of Notes, to replace mutilated, destroyed, lost or
stolen Notes and to maintain paying agencies) on the 91st day after the applicable conditions
described below have been satisfied or (b) to cease (together with each Guarantor) to be under
any obligation to comply with the covenants described above under “ —Covenants of the Issuer
and the Guarantors—Negative Pledge”, “—Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors—
Limitation on Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations”, and non-
compliance with such covenants and the occurrence of all events described above under “—
Events of Default” will not give rise to any Event of Default under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture,
at any time after the applicable conditions described below have been satisfied.
In order to exercise either defeasance option, the Issuer must (i) deposit with the Trustee,
irrevocably in money or Government Obligations (as defined in the 2019 BATCAP Indenture),
funds sufficient in the opinion of a certified public accounting firm of national reputation for the
payment of principal of and interest on the applicable outstanding Notes of any series to and
including the Redemption Date irrevocably designated by the Issuer on or prior to the date of
deposit of such money or Government Obligations, and must (ii) comply with certain other
conditions, including delivering to the Trustee an opinion of U.S. counsel to the effect that
beneficial owners of the applicable Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for United
States Federal income tax purposes as a result of the exercise of such option and will be subject
to United States Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same
time as would have been the case if such option had not been exercised and, in the case of clause
(a) in the previous paragraph, which opinion must state that such opinion is based on a ruling
received from or published by the United States Internal Revenue Service or on a change in the
applicable U.S. Federal income tax laws after the date of issuance of the relevant Notes.
73
[[6543924]]
Modification and Waiver
Without Consent of Noteholders
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer, the Guarantors and the
Trustee, without the consent of the holders of any of the applicable Notes at any time
outstanding, from time to time and at any time, to enter into a supplemental indenture amending
or supplementing such 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees in order to:
• convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the holders of the applicable Notes or any
person acting on their behalf as security for the applicable Notes any property or assets;
• evidence the succession of another person to the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may
be, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor person(s) of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may be,
pursuant to the 2019 BATCAP Indenture;
• evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment of a successor or successors to
the Trustee and/or the Paying Agent, Transfer Agent, Calculation Agent and Registrar, as
applicable;
• add to the covenants of, or the restrictions, conditions or provisions applicable to, the
Issuer and any Guarantor, as the case may be, such further covenants, restrictions,
conditions or provisions as the Issuer and any Guarantor, as the case may be, shall
consider to be for the protection of the holders of the applicable Notes issued pursuant to
the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, including to eliminate one or both prongs of the release
provision under “—Guarantees—Release”, and to make the occurrence, or the
occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions,
conditions or provisions an Event of Default under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture
permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in the 2019
BATCAP Indenture; provided that, in respect of any such additional covenant, restriction,
condition or provision, such supplemental indenture may provide for a particular period
of grace after default (which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of
other defaults) or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such an Event of
Default;
• modify the restrictions on, and procedures for, resale and other transfers of the applicable
Notes pursuant to law, regulation or practice relating to the resale or transfer of restricted
securities generally;
• cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the 2019
BATCAP Indenture, the Notes, or the Guarantees which may be defective or inconsistent
with any other provision contained therein or to make such other provision in regard to
matters or questions arising under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes or the
Guarantees as the Issuer, any Guarantor or the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable
and which will not, in the opinion of the Issuer, adversely affect the interests of the
holders of the applicable Notes in any material respect;
74
[[6543924]]
• issue an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Notes under the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture or to “reopen” the applicable series of Notes and create and issue additional
notes having substantially identical terms and conditions as the applicable Notes (or in all
respects except as to issue price, denomination, rate of interest, Maturity Date and the
date from which interest, if any, shall accrue, and except as may otherwise be provided in
or pursuant to such officer’s certificate or supplemental indenture relating thereto) so that
the additional notes are consolidated and form a single series with the outstanding
applicable Notes; and
• evidence the addition of any new Guarantor of the Notes and the 2019 BATCAP
Indenture, or the release of any Guarantor from its obligations with respect to the Notes
and the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, pursuant to the terms of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture.
With Consent of Noteholders
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer, each Guarantor and the
Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount
of all series of the Notes affected by such supplemental indenture (voting as one class) at the
time outstanding under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture (including consents obtained in connection
with a tender offer or exchange offer for the applicable Notes), from time to time and at any
time, to enter into a supplemental indenture for the purpose of amending, waiving or otherwise
modifying the provisions of the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees, or
adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the
applicable Notes or of modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the applicable Notes;
provided, that no such supplemental indenture may, without the consent of the holder of each of
the Notes so affected:
• change the stated maturity of the applicable Note of, or the date for payment of any
principal of, or installment of interest on, any applicable Note, or reduce the amount of
principal of an Original Issue Discount Note that would be due and payable upon a
declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to the provisions of the 2019
BATCAP Indenture; or
• reduce the principal amount of or the rate or amount of interest on any applicable Note or
Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto or reduce the amount payable thereon
in the event of redemption or default or change the method for determining the interest
rate thereon; or
• change the currency of payment of principal of or interest on any applicable Note or
Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto; or change the obligation of the Issuer
or any Guarantor, as the case may be, to pay Additional Amounts (except as otherwise
permitted by such applicable Note); or
• impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or with
respect to any applicable Note; or
75
[[6543924]]
• reduce the percentage of the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Notes
outstanding the consent of whose holders is required for any such supplemental
indenture; or
• reduce the aggregate principal amount of any applicable Note outstanding necessary to
modify or amend the 2019 BATCAP Indenture or any such Note or to waive any future
compliance or past default or reduce the quorum requirements or the percentage of
aggregate principal amount of any applicable Notes outstanding required for the adoption
of any action at any meeting of holders of such Notes or to reduce the percentage of the
aggregate principal amount of such Notes outstanding necessary to rescind or annul any
declaration of the principal of, or all accrued and unpaid interest on, any Note to be due
and payable,
provided that no consent of any holder of any applicable Note shall be necessary to permit the
Trustee, the Issuer and each Guarantor to execute supplemental indentures as described under
“—Without Consent of Noteholders” above.
Any modifications, amendments or waivers to the 2019 BATCAP Indenture or to the conditions
of the applicable Notes will be conclusive and binding on all holders of the applicable Notes,
whether or not they have consented to such action or were present at the meeting at which such
action was taken, and on all future holders of the applicable Notes, whether or not notation of
such modifications, amendments or waivers is made upon such Notes. Any instrument given by
or on behalf of any holder of such a Note in connection with any consent to any such
modification, amendment or waiver will be irrevocable once given and will be conclusive and
binding on all subsequent registered holders of such Note.
Prescription
Under New York’s statute of limitations, any legal action upon the Notes in respect of interest or
principal must be commenced within six years after the payment thereof is due.
Notice
Notices to holders of Notes will be given by first-class mail postage prepaid to the last addresses
of such holders as they appear in the Notes register; provided, no such mailing will be required
so long as any Global Notes representing the Notes are held in their entirety on behalf of the
Depositary or a clearing system, or any of its participants, as there may be substituted for the
mailing of notice to holders of Notes described above the delivery of the relevant. Such notices
will be deemed to have been given on the date of such mailing; notices to the Depositary or a
clearing system, and (if applicable) its participants, for communication by them to the entitled
accountholders. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the day on which the
said notice was given to the Depositary or a clearing system, and (if applicable) its participants.
Listing
The BATCAP Notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
76
[[6543924]]
Consent to Service
Each of the non-U.S. Guarantors has initially designated BATCAP as its authorized agent for
service of process in any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the
performance of its obligations under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the supplemental indentures
and the Notes brought in any state or federal court in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New
York, and the Guarantors will irrevocably submit (but for these purposes only) to the non-
exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit, action or proceeding.
Governing Law
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees are, and any applicable
supplemental indentures shall be, governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Regarding the Trustee and Agents
Citibank, N.A. is the trustee under the 2019 BATCAP Indenture. Citibank, N.A. is appointed by
the Issuer to act as registrar, transfer agent, calculation agent and initial paying agent for the
Notes. The address of Citibank, N.A., as paying agent, is Citibank, N.A., Agency & Trust, 388
Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013. From time to time, Citibank, N.A. and its respective
affiliates perform various other services for the BAT Group and its affiliates (including acting as
a lender under one or more of the BAT Group’s lending facilities from time to time).
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture contains limitations on the rights of the trustee, if it becomes a
creditor of Issuer or any Guarantor, to obtain payment of claims in some cases, or to realize on
property received in respect of any of these claims as security or otherwise. The Trustee is
permitted to engage in other transactions. However, if the Trustee acquires any conflicting
interest (as defined in the TIA), it must either eliminate its conflict within 90 days or resign.
The 2019 BATCAP Indenture provides that except during the continuance of an Event of
Default, the Trustee will perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in such 2019
BATCAP Indenture. During the continuance of an Event of Default of which the Trustee has
received written notice, the Trustee will exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it under
the 2019 BATCAP Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a
prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person’s
own affairs.
E. Description of the Notes Issued Under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture
The following is a summary of the material provisions of the 2017 BATCAP Indenture (as
described below) and the Notes. Any capitalized term used herein but not defined shall have the
meaning assigned to such term in the 2017 BATCAP Indenture or under “—Certain
Definitions”. The following summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is
qualified in its entirety by reference to, all of the provisions of the 2017 BATCAP Indenture and
those terms made a part of the 2017 BATCAP Indenture by reference to the TIA.
77
[[6543924]]
GENERAL
The 3.557% Notes due 2027 (the “3.557% Notes”), the 4.390% Notes due 2037 (the “4.390%
Notes”), the 4.540% Notes due 2047 (the “4.540% Notes” and, together with the 3.557% Notes
and the 4.390% Notes, the “Notes”) were issued by B.A.T Capital Corporation (“BATCAP” or
the “Issuer”).
In this “Description of the Notes Issued Under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture”, we refer to each
series of the Notes as a “series” of Notes.
The 3.557% Notes will mature on August 15, 2027. The 4.390% Notes will mature on August
15, 2037. The 4.540% Notes will mature on August 15, 2047.
The Notes were issued in registered form and treated as three separate series of debt securities
under an indenture dated as of August 15, 2017 (as supplemented by the supplemental indenture
no. 1, dated as of September 28, 2018, and as further amended or supplemented from time to
time, the “2017 BATCAP Indenture”). The 2017 BATCAP Indenture is by and among
BATCAP, as Issuer, British American Tobacco p.l.c. (“BAT” or the “Parent Guarantor”), B.A.T.
International Finance p.l.c. (“BATIF”), British American Tobacco Holdings (The Netherlands)
B.V. (“BATHTN”), B.A.T. Netherlands Finance B.V. (“BATNF” and, together with BATHTN,
the “Dutch Guarantors”), and, unless its guarantee is released in accordance with the 2017
BATCAP Indenture, Reynolds American Inc. (“RAI”), each as a guarantor,
Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee (the “Trustee”), and Citibank, N.A., London
Branch as paying agent, registrar, transfer agent and calculation agent (in such capacity, “Paying
Agent”, “Registrar”, “Transfer Agent” or “Calculation Agent”, respectively). Citibank, N.A.,
New York Branch replaced Citibank, N.A., London Branch as paying agent, registrar, transfer
agent and calculation agent on October 16, 2018.
Each entity that provides a guarantee in respect of the Notes is referred to herein as a
“Guarantor”. In this “Description of the Notes Issued Under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture”, the
terms “holder”, “Noteholder” and other similar terms refer to a “registered holder” of Notes, and
not to a beneficial owner of a book-entry interest in any Notes.
PRINCIPAL, MATURITY AND INTEREST
The obligations of the Issuer under the Notes and 2017 BATCAP Indenture are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed on a senior and unsecured basis by each of the Parent Guarantor, the
Dutch Guarantors, BATIF and RAI.
The Notes were issued in the following aggregate principal amounts, with outstanding aggregate
principal amounts as of December 31, 2024 and maturity dates as follows:
Initial aggregate Outstanding aggregate
Series of Notes principal amount principal amount Maturity date
3.557% Notes $3,500,000,000 $2,273,000,000 August 15, 2027
4.390% Notes $2,500,000,000 $2,500,000,000 August 15, 2037
4.540% Notes $2,500,000,000 $2,113,807,000 August 15, 2047
78
[[6543924]]
Interest
The Notes bear interest per annum and have maturity dates as follows:
Series of Notes Interest rate per annum Maturity date
3.557% Notes 3.557% August 15, 2027
4.390% Notes 4.390% August 15, 2037
4.540% Notes 4.540% August 15, 2047
The 3.557% Notes, the 4.390% Notes and the 4.540% Notes bear interest from the most recent
interest payment date to which interest has been paid or provided, payable semi-annually in
arrear on February 15 and August 15 of each year (each, an “Interest Payment Date”) until their
respective maturity date, unless previously purchased or redeemed by BATCAP, to the person in
whose name any, 3.557% Note, 4.390% Note or 4.540% Note, as applicable, is registered at the
close of business on the 15th calendar day preceding each Interest Payment Date, whether or not
such day is a Business Day (each, a “Record Date”) notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of
such Notes subsequent to the Record Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, except that, if
and to the extent BATCAP shall default in the payment of the interest due on such Interest
Payment Date, and the applicable grace period shall have expired, such defaulted interest may at
the option of BATCAP be paid to the persons in whose names the outstanding Notes are
registered at the close of business on a subsequent Record Date (which shall not be less than five
Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice sent
by or on behalf of the Issuer to the holders (which term means registered holders) of the 3.557%
Notes, 4.390% Notes or 4.540% Notes, as applicable, not less than 15 days preceding such
subsequent Record Date. Interest is computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months, or in the case of an incomplete month, the number of days elapsed. If the date on
which any interest payment or principal payment is to be made is not a Business Day, such
payment will be made on the next day which is a Business Day, without any further interest or
other amounts being paid or payable in connection therewith. A “Business Day” refers to any
day which is not, in London or New York City, or any other place of payment, a Saturday,
Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or obligated by law
or regulation to close.
FORM AND DENOMINATION
The Notes were issued in fully registered form and only in minimum denominations of $2,000
and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Notes were issued as Global Notes.
FURTHER ISSUES
The aggregate principal amount of Notes issuable under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture is
unlimited. The Issuer may, from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the holders of
the Notes, “reopen” any series of the Notes and create and issue additional notes having identical
terms and conditions as the 3.557% Notes, the 4.390% Notes and the 4.540% Notes, as the case
79
[[6543924]]
may be (or in all respects except for the issue date, issue price, the payment of interest accruing
prior to the issue date of such additional notes and/or the first payment of interest following the
issue date of such additional notes) so that the additional notes are consolidated and form a single
series of Notes with the Notes, as the case may be (a “Further Issue”), provided that if the
additional notes are not fungible with the Notes for United States federal income tax purposes,
the additional notes will have separate CUSIPs, ISINs, or other identifying numbers.
STATUS OF THE NOTES AND GUARANTEES
The Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer and rank pari passu in
right of payment among themselves and with all other direct, unsecured and unsubordinated
obligations of the Issuer (except those obligations preferred by statute or operation of law). Each
Guarantor fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior, unsecured basis, the due and
punctual payment (and not collectability) of the principal of and interest on the Notes (and the
payment of additional amounts described under “ —Payment of Additional Amounts” below) and
other obligations under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture when and as the same shall become due
and payable, whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or
otherwise. Each Guarantee is an unsecured and unsubordinated obligation of the respective
Guarantor and ranks pari passu in right of payment with all other direct, unsecured and
unsubordinated obligations of such Guarantor (except those obligations preferred by statute or
operation of law). The Issuer and each Guarantor are subject to a negative pledge with respect to
certain types of indebtedness, which are discussed in “ —Covenants of the Issuer and the
Guarantors—Negative Pledge” below.
GUARANTEES
Release
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture provides that, without the consent of the Trustee or the
Noteholders, a Guarantor that is a subsidiary of the Parent Guarantor (a “Subsidiary Guarantor”),
other than BATIF and the Dutch Guarantors, will automatically and unconditionally be released
from all obligations under its Guarantee, and such Guarantee shall thereupon terminate and be
discharged and of no further force or effect, in the event that (1) its guarantee of all then
outstanding notes issued under the EMTN Programme is released or (2) at substantially the same
time its Guarantee of the Notes is terminated, the Subsidiary Guarantor is released from all
obligations in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money for which such Subsidiary Guarantor
is an obligor (as a guarantor or borrower). For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of a
Subsidiary Guarantor’s indebtedness for borrowed money shall not include (A) the Notes issued
pursuant to the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, (B) any other debt the terms of which permit the
termination of such Subsidiary Guarantor’s guarantee of such debt under similar circumstances,
as long as such Subsidiary Guarantor’s obligations in respect of such other debt are terminated at
substantially the same time as its guarantee of the Notes, (C) any debt that is being refinanced at
substantially the same time that the guarantee of the Notes is being released, provided that any
obligations of the relevant Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the debt that is incurred in the
refinancing shall be included in the calculation of the relevant Subsidiary Guarantor’s
indebtedness for borrowed money and (D) for the avoidance of doubt, any debt in respect of
which such Subsidiary Guarantor is an obligor (as a guarantor or borrower) (i) between or among
80
[[6543924]]
the Parent Guarantor and any subsidiary or subsidiaries thereof or (ii) between or among any
subsidiaries of the Parent Guarantor.
As of the date of this summary, RAI is the only Subsidiary Guarantor to which the above
provision is relevant. Under the EMTN Programme, a Subsidiary Guarantor’s guarantee is
released if at any time the aggregate amount of indebtedness for borrowed money for which the
Subsidiary Guarantor is an obligor does not exceed 10% of the outstanding long term debt of
BAT as reflected in the balance sheet included in BAT’s most recent publicly released interim or
annual consolidated financial statements, as evidenced by a certificate to such effect addressed to
the trustee under the EMTN Programme and signed by a director of BAT.
ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS
The Issuer or, if applicable, each Guarantor, will make payments of, or in respect of, principal,
premium (if any) and interest on the Notes, or any payment pursuant to the applicable Guarantee,
as the case may be, without withholding or deduction for or on account of any present or future
tax, levy, impost or other similar governmental charge whatsoever imposed, assessed, levied or
collected (“Taxes”) by or for the account of the United States, the United Kingdom (in the case
of a payment by the Parent Guarantor or BATIF), The Netherlands (in the case of a payment by a
Dutch Guarantor) or any other jurisdiction through which payment is made by or on behalf of the
Issuer or, if applicable, such Guarantor (or any political subdivision thereof or any authority
thereof having the power to tax) (a “Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction”), unless such withholding or
deduction is required by law.
If the Issuer or, if applicable, any Guarantor, is required by a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction to so
withhold or deduct such Taxes, the Issuer or, if applicable, such Guarantor, will pay to the holder
of a Note such additional amounts (“Additional Amounts”) as may be necessary so that the net
amount received by such holder will not be less than the amount such holder would have
received if such Taxes had not been withheld or deducted; provided, however, that amounts with
respect to any United States Tax shall be payable only to holders that are not United States
persons (within the meaning of the Code); and provided further, that neither the Issuer nor such
Guarantor shall be required to pay any Additional Amounts for or on account of:
(i) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the fact that the holder or beneficial owner of the applicable Note or Guarantee
(or a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of, or possessor of a
power over, such holder, if such holder is an estate, trust, partnership or
corporation) is or has been a domiciliary, national or resident of, or engaging or
having been engaged in a trade or business or maintaining or having maintained a
permanent establishment or being or having been physically present in, a Relevant
Taxing Jurisdiction or otherwise having or having had some connection with a
Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction other than the holding or ownership of, or the
collection of principal of, and premium (if any) or interest on, a Note or the
enforcement of the applicable Guarantee, as the case may be;
(ii) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the fact that, where presentation is required in order to receive payment, the
81
[[6543924]]
applicable Note or Guarantee was presented more than 30 days after the date on
which such payment became due and payable or was provided for, whichever is
later, except to the extent that the holder or beneficial owner thereof would have
been entitled to Additional Amounts had the applicable Note or Guarantee been
presented for payment on any day during such 30- day period;
(iii) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, personal property or similar Taxes;
(iv) any Taxes that are payable otherwise than by withholding or deduction from
payments on or in respect of the applicable Note or Guarantee;
(v) any Taxes that would not have been so imposed, assessed, levied or collected but
for the failure by the holder or the beneficial owner of the applicable Note or
Guarantee to (A) provide any certification, identification, information, documents
or other evidence concerning the nationality, residence or identity of the holder or
the beneficial owner or its connection with the Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction or
(B) make any valid or timely declaration or claim or satisfy any other reporting,
information or procedural requirements relating to such matters if, in either case,
compliance is required by statute, regulation, relevant income tax treaty or
administrative practice of the Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction as a condition to relief
or exemption from such Taxes;
(vi) any Taxes imposed by reason of the holder or the beneficial owner of the
applicable Note or Guarantee being or having been considered a bank receiving
payments on an extension of credit made pursuant to a loan agreement entered
into in the ordinary course of its trade or business, as described in Section
881(c)(3)(A) of the Code (or any amended or successor provisions);
(vii) any Taxes imposed on interest received by a 10-percent shareholder of the Issuer
within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) or Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code
(or any amended or successor provisions);
(viii) any backup withholding imposed pursuant to Section 3406 of the Code (or any
amended or successor provisions);
(ix) any Taxes imposed pursuant to Section 871(h)(6) or Section 881(c)(6) of the
Code (or any amended or successor provisions);
(x) any Taxes imposed by reason of the holder or the beneficial owner of the
applicable Note or Guarantee being or having been a personal holding company,
passive foreign investment company or controlled foreign corporation for U.S.
federal income tax purposes or a corporation that has accumulated earnings to
avoid U.S. federal income tax;
(xi) any Taxes imposed or withheld pursuant to Sections 1471 through 1474 of the
Code (or any amended or successor provisions), any Treasury regulations
promulgated thereunder, any official interpretations thereof or any agreements
entered into in connection with the implementation thereof; or
82
[[6543924]]
(xii) any combination of the Taxes described in (i) through (xi) above.
In addition, Additional Amounts will not be paid with respect to any payment of the principal of,
or any premium or interest on, any of the applicable Notes or Guarantees to any holder that is a
fiduciary, a partnership, a limited liability company or any person other than the sole beneficial
owner of such payment to the extent a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a
member of such partnership, an interest holder in such limited liability company or a beneficial
owner that would not have been entitled to such amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member,
interest holder or beneficial owner been the holder of the applicable Notes or Guarantees.
Unless otherwise stated, references in any context to the payment of principal of, and any
premium or interest on, any Note, or any payment pursuant to the Guarantees, will be deemed to
include payment of Additional Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts
are, were or would be payable in respect thereof.
REDEMPTION
The Notes are subject to optional redemption by the Issuer as described below under “—
Optional Redemption”.
The Notes will be subject to optional redemption by the Issuer in the event of certain changes in
tax laws applicable to payments in respect of the Notes as described below under “ —
Redemption for Tax Reasons”.
Optional Redemption
The Issuer may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at the Issuer’s option, at any time and from
time to time before the applicable Par Call Date, for all series of Notes at a redemption price
equal to the greater of (x) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (y) as
determined by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined below), the sum of the present
values of the applicable Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) discounted to the
date of redemption (the “Redemption Date”) on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year
consisting of twelve 30-day months or, in the case of an incomplete month, the number of days
elapsed) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus, in the case of each respective series of
Notes as follows:
3.557% Notes 20 basis points
4.390% Notes 25 basis points
4.540% Notes 30 basis points
together with, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the Notes to
be redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
If the Issuer elects to redeem the 3.557% Notes, 4.390% Notes or the 4.540% Notes on or after
the applicable Par Call Date (as defined below), the Issuer will pay an amount equal to 100% of
the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but
excluding, the date of redemption.
83
[[6543924]]
In connection with such optional redemption the following defined terms apply:
• Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the
Independent Investment Banker that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in
accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt
securities of comparable maturity to, the remaining term of the 3.557% Notes, 4.390%
Notes or the 4.540% Notes, as the case may be, to the relevant Par Call Date.
• Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average
of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding
the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations or (B) if the
Independent Investment Banker for the applicable Notes obtains fewer than four such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations.
• Independent Investment Banker means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers (as defined
below) appointed by the Issuer to act as the “Independent Investment Banker”.
• Par Call Date means (i) May 15, 2027, with respect to any 3.557% Notes (three months
prior to the maturity date of the 3.557% Notes), (ii) February 15, 2037, with respect to
any 4.390% Notes (six months prior to the maturity date of the 4.390% Notes) and (iii)
February 15, 2047, with respect to any 4.540% Notes (six months prior to the maturity
date of the 4.540% Notes).
• Reference Treasury Dealer means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and their respective successors and two
other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers
specified from time to time by the Issuer; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing
shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a
“Primary Treasury Dealer”), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another nationally
recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
• Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation means, with respect to each Reference Treasury
Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent
Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the
Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New
York City time, on the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date.
• Remaining Scheduled Payments means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the
remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be
due from and including the related Redemption Date, but for such redemption, to but
excluding the relevant Par Call Date; provided, however, that if that Redemption Date is
not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Notes, the amount of the next
succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest
accrued thereon to that Redemption Date.
84
[[6543924]]
• Treasury Rate means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to
the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third Business Day
immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue,
assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
Notice of any optional redemption will be given in accordance with “ —Notice” below at least 10
days but not more than 30 days before the Redemption Date to each holder of the Notes to be
redeemed.
If less than all the Notes of any series are to be redeemed, in the case of a redemption at the
Issuer’s option as discussed in this section, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected in
accordance with applicable procedures of DTC.
Redemption for Tax Reasons
Each series of Notes is also redeemable by the Issuer, in whole but not in part, at 100% of the
principal amount of such Notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the applicable
Redemption Date (including any Additional Amounts) at the Issuer’s option at any time prior to
their maturity if, due to a Change in Tax Law (as defined below): (i) the Issuer or a Guarantor, in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Notes or applicable Guarantee, has, or would,
become obligated to pay any Additional Amounts to the holders or beneficial owners of the
Notes of that series; (ii) in the case of a Guarantor, (A) the Parent Guarantor would be unable, for
reasons outside its control, to procure payment by the Issuer or any other Guarantor or (B) the
procuring of such payment by the Issuer and each such other Guarantor would be subject to
withholding taxes imposed by a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction; and (iii) such obligation cannot
otherwise be avoided by such Guarantor, the Parent Guarantor or the Issuer, taking reasonable
measures available to it. In such case, the Issuer may redeem the applicable Notes upon not less
than 30 nor more than 60 days’ notice as provided in “ —Notice” below, at 100% of the principal
amount of such Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date (including
Additional Amounts); provided, that, (a) no such notice of redemption shall be given earlier than
90 days prior to the earliest date on which the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the case may be,
would be obligated to pay any such Additional Amounts in respect of the applicable Notes or
applicable Guarantee, as applicable, then due and (b) at the time such notice is given, such
obligation to pay such Additional Amounts remains in effect. The Issuer’s right to redeem the
applicable Notes shall continue as long as the Issuer or a Guarantor is obligated to pay such
Additional Amounts, notwithstanding that the Issuer or such Guarantor, as the case may be, shall
have made payments of Additional Amounts. Prior to the giving of any such notice of
redemption, the Issuer must deliver to the Trustee: (i) an officer’s certificate stating that the
Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the
conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer so to redeem have occurred; and (ii) an opinion of
independent counsel or an independent accountant of recognized standing, selected by the Issuer
or any Guarantor, as applicable, with respect to tax matters of the Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction to
the effect that the Issuer or such Guarantor has, or would, become obligated to pay such
Additional Amounts as a result of such Change in Tax Law.
85
[[6543924]]
For the purposes hereof, “Change in Tax Law” shall mean: (i) any changes in, or amendment to,
any law of a Relevant Taxing Jurisdiction (including any regulations or rulings promulgated
thereunder and including, for this purpose, any treaty entered into by the Relevant Taxing
Jurisdiction) or any amendment to or change in the application or official interpretation
(including judicial or administrative interpretation) of such law, which change or amendment
becomes effective or, in the case of an official interpretation, is announced, on or after August
15, 2017; or (ii) if the Issuer or a Guarantor consolidates, merges, amalgamates or combines
with, or transfers or leases its assets substantially as an entirety to, any person that is
incorporated or tax resident under the laws of any jurisdiction other than a Relevant Taxing
Jurisdiction (a “successor”) and as a consequence thereof such person becomes the successor
obligor to the Issuer or such Guarantor in respect of Additional Amounts that may become
payable (in which case, for purposes of this redemption provision, all references to the Issuer or
such Guarantor shall be deemed to be and include references to such person), any change in, or
amendment to, any law of the jurisdiction of organization or tax residence of such successor, or
the jurisdiction through which payments will be made by the successor, or any political
subdivision or taxing authority thereof or thereon for purposes of taxation (including any
regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder and including, for this purpose, any treaty entered
into by such jurisdiction) or any amendment to or change in the application or official
interpretation (including judicial or administrative interpretation) of such law, which change or
amendment becomes effective or, in the case of an official interpretation, is announced, on or
after the date of such consolidation, merger, amalgamation, combination or other transaction.
General
Upon presentation of any Note redeemed in part only, the Issuer will execute and the Paying
Agent will authenticate and deliver (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to, or on, the order
of the holder thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new Note or Notes, of authorized
denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Note so presented.
On or before any Redemption Date (as defined above), the Issuer shall deposit with the Paying
Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued and unpaid interest on the
Notes to be redeemed on such date. The redemption price shall be calculated by the Independent
Investment Banker and the Issuer, and the Trustee and any agent shall be entitled to rely on such
calculation.
On and after any Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or any portion
thereof called for redemption.
MATURITY
Unless previously purchased or redeemed by the Issuer, and cancelled, the principal amount of
each respective series of Notes shall mature on:
Series of Notes Maturity date
3.557% Notes August 15, 2027
4.390% Notes August 15, 2037
4.540% Notes August 15, 2047
86
[[6543924]]
in an amount equal, in each case, to their principal amount, with accrued and unpaid interest to
such date.
REACQUISITION
There is no restriction on the ability of the Issuer to purchase or repurchase Notes, provided, that
any Notes so repurchased shall be cancelled and not reissued.
SINKING FUND
There is no provision for a sinking fund for any of the Notes.
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS
Set forth below is a summary of certain of the defined terms used in the Notes and the 2017
BATCAP Indenture. You should refer to the Notes and the 2017 BATCAP Indenture for the full
definition of all defined terms as well as any other terms used herein for which no definition is
provided.
“EMTN Programme” means the Euro Medium Term Note Programme to which BATIF,
BATCAP, BATHTN and BATNF are parties as the issuers under the programme and notes
issued thereunder are guaranteed by the Parent Guarantor, each of the issuers thereunder (except
when it is the relevant issuer) and RAI, as amended from time to time.
“Person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited
liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any
agency or political subdivision thereof.
“Quoted Borrowing” means any indebtedness which: (a) is represented by notes, debentures or
other securities issued otherwise than to constitute or represent advances made by banks and/or
other lending institutions; (b) is denominated, or confers any right to payment of principal and/or
interest, in or by reference to any currency other than the currency of the country in which the
issuer of the indebtedness has its principal place of business or is denominated, or confers any
right to payment of principal and/or interest, in or by reference to the currency of such country
but is placed or offered for subscription or sale by or on behalf of, or by agreement with, the
issuer of such indebtedness as to over 20% outside such country; and (c) at its date of issue is, or
is intended by the issuer of such indebtedness to become, quoted, listed, traded or dealt in on any
stock exchange or other organized and regulated securities market in any part of the world.
COVENANTS OF THE ISSUER AND THE GUARANTORS
Negative Pledge
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture provides that so long as any of the applicable Notes remains
outstanding, neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor will secure or allow to be secured any Quoted
Borrowing or any payment under any guarantee by any of them of any Quoted Borrowing by any
mortgage, charge, pledge or lien (other than arising by operation of law) upon any of its
87
[[6543924]]
undertaking or assets, whether present or future, unless at the same time the same mortgage,
charge, pledge or lien is extended, or security which is not materially less beneficial to the
holders of the applicable Notes than the security given as aforesaid or which shall be approved
by consent of the holders of not less than 75% in aggregate principal amount of the applicable
Notes at the time outstanding is extended or created (as the case may be), to secure equally and
ratably the principal of, and interest on, and all other payments (if any) in respect of the
applicable Notes.
Limitation on Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations
So long as any of the applicable Notes remain outstanding, neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor
may consolidate with or merge into any other person or sell, convey, transfer or lease its
properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any person (other than any
sale or conveyance by way of a lease in the ordinary course of business), unless: (i) in the case of
the Issuer, any successor person assumes the Issuer’s obligations on the applicable Notes and
under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture and, in the case of any Guarantor, any successor person
assumes such Guarantor’s obligations on the applicable Guarantee and under the 2017 BATCAP
Indenture; (ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no
event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have
occurred and be continuing; (iii) such successor person is organized under the laws of the United
States, the United Kingdom, The Netherlands or any other country that is a member of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development as of the date of such succession; (iv)
such successor person agrees to pay any Additional Amounts imposed by the jurisdiction in
which such successor person is incorporated or otherwise a resident for tax purposes or through
which payments are made and resulting therefrom or otherwise; and (v) if as a result of such
consolidation or merger or such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the
Issuer or any Guarantor would become subject to a mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or
similar encumbrance to secure payment of any indebtedness for borrowed money of the Issuer or
a Guarantor which would not be permitted by the applicable Notes or under the 2017 BATCAP
Indenture, the Issuer or any Guarantor or such successor person, as the case may be, shall take
such steps as shall be necessary to effectively secure the Notes equally and ratably with (or prior
to) all indebtedness for borrowed money secured thereby.
The limitation on mergers, consolidations, amalgamations and combinations described in this
section “ —Limitation on Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations” shall not
apply to any consolidation, merger, amalgamation or combination in which the Issuer or
applicable Guarantor is the surviving corporation except that, in such case, the provisions of (ii)
and (v) above shall apply such that: (x) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no
Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an
Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and (y) if as a result of such
consolidation or merger or such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the
Issuer or any Guarantor would become subject to a mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or
similar encumbrance to secure payment of any indebtedness for borrowed money of the Issuer or
a Guarantor which would not be permitted by the applicable Notes or under the 2017 BATCAP
Indenture, the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to effectively secure the Notes equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness
for borrowed money secured thereby.
88
[[6543924]]
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture does not contain covenants or other provisions to afford protection
to holders of the Notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction or a change in control of the
Issuer or any Guarantor except as provided above.
Upon certain mergers or consolidations involving the Issuer or a Guarantor, or upon certain sales
or conveyances of the properties of the Issuer or a Guarantor, the obligations of the Issuer or
such Guarantor, under the applicable Notes or the applicable Guarantee, shall be assumed by the
person formed by such merger or consolidation or which shall have acquired such property and
upon such assumptions such person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Issuer or such
Guarantor, as the case may be, and then the Issuer or such Guarantor will be relieved from all
obligations under the Notes and the applicable Guarantee, as the case may be. The terms “Issuer”
and “Guarantor”, as used in the Notes and the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, also refer to any such
successors or assigns so substituted.
Although there is a limited body of case law interpreting the phrase “entirety or substantially as
an entirety”, there is no precise established definition of the phrase under applicable law.
Accordingly, in certain circumstances, there may be a degree of uncertainty as to whether a
particular transaction would involve a disposition of “entirety or substantially as an entirety” of
the Issuer’s assets and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
The following will be Events of Default (each an “Event of Default”) with respect to the
applicable Notes:
(i) Non-Payment: default is made in the payment of: (a) any installment of interest
(excluding Additional Amounts) upon any applicable Note as and when the same
shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 14
days or more; (b) applicable Additional Amounts as and when the same shall
become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 14 days;
or (c) all or any part of the principal or premium, if any, of any applicable Note as
and when the same shall become due and payable either at maturity, upon any
redemption, by declaration or otherwise, and continuance of such default for three
days;
(ii) Breach of Other Obligations: the Issuer or any Guarantor does not perform or
comply with any one or more of its other obligations under the applicable Notes
or the 2017 BATCAP Indenture (other than those described in paragraph (i)
above) which is not remedied within 30 days after written notice of such default
shall have been given to the Issuer by the Trustee or to the Issuer and the Trustee
by the holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes;
(iii) Cross-Default: (a) any other present or future indebtedness for borrowed money
of the Issuer or any Guarantor, other than the Notes issued by the Issuer, becomes
due and payable prior to its stated maturity by reason of any default or event of
default in respect thereof by the Issuer or any Guarantor and remains unpaid; or
(b) any such indebtedness for borrowed money is not paid when due or, as the
89
[[6543924]]
case may be, within any applicable grace period; or (c) the Issuer or any
Guarantor fails to pay when due and called upon (after the expiry of any
applicable grace period) any amount payable by it under any present or future
guarantee for, or indemnity in respect of, any indebtedness for borrowed money
and which remains unpaid; provided that (x) payment of the indebtedness for
borrowed money is not being contested in good faith and in accordance with legal
advice or (y) the aggregate amount of the indebtedness for borrowed money,
guarantees and indemnities in respect of which one or more of the events
mentioned above in (a), (b) and (c) has or have occurred and is or are continuing,
equals or exceeds £750 million or its equivalent in any other currency of the
indebtedness for borrowed money or, if greater, 1.25% of the Total Equity of the
Parent Guarantor, as set out in the “Total Equity” line item in the most recent
consolidated group balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its subsidiaries in
the Parent Guarantor’s most recent Annual Report;
(iv) Cessation of Guarantees: any Guarantee ceases to be in full force and effect
(except as contemplated by the terms of the 2017 BATCAP Indenture) or any
Guarantor denies or disaffirms in writing its obligations under the 2017 BATCAP
Indenture or Guarantee;
(v) Enforcement Proceedings: a distress or execution or other legal process is levied
or enforced against or an encumbrancer takes possession of or a receiver,
administrative receiver or other similar officer is appointed of the whole or a part
of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor which is substantial in relation to the
BAT Group taken as a whole and is not discharged, stayed, removed or paid out
within 45 days after such execution or appointment;
(vi) Security Enforced: any mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other encumbrance,
present or future, created or assumed by the Issuer or any Guarantor becomes
enforceable and any step is taken to enforce it (including the taking of possession
or the appointment of a receiver, administrative receiver, manager or other similar
person) against all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor
and is not discharged within 45 days;
(vii) Insolvency: the Issuer or any Guarantor is insolvent or bankrupt or unable to pay
its debts (in respect of companies incorporated in England and Wales, within the
meaning of Sections 123(1)(b) or (e) or Section 123(2) of the UK Insolvency Act
1986), stops, suspends or threatens to stop or suspend payment of all or a material
part of its debts, proposes or makes a general assignment or an arrangement or
composition (otherwise than for the purposes of reconstruction, amalgamation,
reorganization, merger or consolidation or other similar arrangement) with or for
the benefit of its creditors in respect of any of such debts or a moratorium is
agreed or declared in respect of or affecting all or a material part of the debts of
the Issuer;
(viii) Winding-up: an order is made or an effective resolution passed for the winding-up
or dissolution or administration of the Issuer or any Guarantor, or the Issuer or
90
[[6543924]]
any Guarantor shall apply or petition for a winding-up or administration order in
respect of itself or ceases or threatens to cease to carry on all or substantially all of
its business or operations, in each case except for the purpose of and followed by
a reconstruction, amalgamation, reorganization, merger or consolidation or other
similar arrangement; or
(ix) Analogous Events: any event occurs that under the laws of any relevant
jurisdiction has an analogous effect to any of the events referred to in any of the
foregoing paragraphs (vii) and (viii).
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture provides that if an Event of Default occurs and is continuing with
respect to the Notes of a series, then and in each and every such case (other than certain Events
of Default specified in paragraphs (vii), (viii) and (ix) above with respect to the Issuer or any
Guarantor), unless the principal of all the applicable Notes shall have already become due and
payable, the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the applicable Notes
then outstanding, by notice in writing to the Issuer, each Guarantor and the Trustee, may declare
the entire principal amount of all applicable Notes issued pursuant to the 2017 BATCAP
Indenture and interest accrued and unpaid thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately,
and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable, without any
further declaration or other act on the part of any holder. If certain Events of Default described in
paragraph (vii), (viii) or (ix) above occur with respect to the Issuer and are continuing, the
principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest on all the applicable Notes issued pursuant
to the 2017 BATCAP Indenture shall become immediately due and payable, without any
declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any holder. Under certain circumstances, the
holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the applicable Notes then outstanding, by
written notice to the Issuer, each Guarantor and the Trustee, may waive defaults and rescind and
annul declarations of acceleration and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and
annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impart any right
consequent thereon.
The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the applicable Notes then outstanding
will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any
remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee,
subject to certain limitations to be specified in the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, including providing
to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it.
An Event of Default with respect to any series of Notes would not necessarily constitute an event
of default with respect to the other series of Notes.
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture also provides that no holder of any Notes governed by the 2017
BATCAP Indenture may institute any action or proceeding at law or in equity or in bankruptcy
or otherwise upon or under or with respect to the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, or for the
appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official or for any other
remedy under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture (except suits for the enforcement of payment of
overdue principal or interest) unless (1) the holder of a Note gives to the Trustee written notice
of a continuing Event of Default, (2) the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then
outstanding Notes make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy, (3) the holder or
91
[[6543924]]
holders of Notes offer, and if requested, provide to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory
to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense, (4) the Trustee does not comply with the
request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer and, if requested, the provision of
indemnity and (5) during such 60-day period the holders of a majority in principal amount of the
then outstanding Notes do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request. The
holder of a Note may not use the 2017 BATCAP Indenture to prejudice the rights of another
holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another holder of a Note (it being
understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such
actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such holders).
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture provides that BAT may, subject to satisfying certain conditions,
discharge certain obligations to the holders of Notes of any series of Notes that have not already
been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation and that either have become due and payable or
will become due and payable within one year (or scheduled for redemption within one year) by
depositing with the Trustee or Paying Agent, in trust, funds in an amount sufficient to pay the
entire indebtedness on such series of Notes in respect of principal and premium, if any, and
interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (if such Notes have become due and payable) or to the
maturity thereof or redemption date, as the case may be, along with an officer’s certificate and an
opinion of counsel stating that all conditions precedent relating to the satisfaction and discharge
of the 2017 BATCAP Indenture have been complied with.
LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture provides that the Issuer will have the option either (a) to be
deemed (together with each Guarantor) to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness
represented by, and obligations under, a series of Notes and the applicable Guarantees and to
have satisfied all the obligations under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture relating to the series of
Notes (except for certain obligations, including those relating to the defeasance trust and
obligations to register the transfer or exchange of Notes, to replace mutilated, destroyed, lost or
stolen Notes and to maintain paying agencies) on the 91st day after the applicable conditions
described below have been satisfied or (b) to cease (together with each Guarantor) to be under
any obligation to comply with the covenant described above under “ —Covenants of the Issuer
and the Guarantors—Negative Pledge” and the condition relating to the absence of any events of
default under “—Covenants of the Issuer and the Guarantors—Limitation on Mergers,
Consolidations, Amalgamations and Combinations” under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, and
non-compliance with such covenants and the occurrence of all events described above under “ —
Events of Default” will not give rise to any Event of Default under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture,
at any time after the applicable conditions described below have been satisfied.
In order to exercise either defeasance option, the Issuer must (i) deposit with the Trustee or
Paying Agent, irrevocably in money or Government Obligations (as defined in the 2017
BATCAP Indenture) funds sufficient in the opinion of a certified public accounting firm of
national reputation for the payment of principal of and interest on the applicable outstanding
Notes of any series to and including the Redemption Date irrevocably designated by the Issuer
on or prior to the date of deposit of such money or Government Obligations, and must (ii)
92
[[6543924]]
comply with certain other conditions, including delivering to the Trustee an opinion of U.S.
counsel to the effect that beneficial owners of the applicable Notes will not recognize income,
gain or loss for United States federal income tax purposes as a result of the exercise of such
option and will be subject to United States federal income tax on the same amount and in the
same manner and at the same time as would have been the case if such option had not been
exercised and, in the case of clause (a) in the previous paragraph, which opinion must state that
such opinion is based on a ruling received from or published by the United States Internal
Revenue Service or on a change of law after August 15, 2017.
MODIFICATION AND WAIVER
Without Consent of Noteholders
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer, each Guarantor and the
Trustee, without the consent of the holders of any of the applicable Notes at any time outstanding
under such 2017 BATCAP Indenture, from time to time and at any time, to enter into a
supplemental indenture amending or supplementing such 2017 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes or
the Guarantees in order to:
• convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the holders of the applicable Notes or any
person acting on their behalf as security for the applicable Notes any property or assets;
• evidence the succession of another person to the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may
be, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor person(s) of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may be,
pursuant to the 2017 BATCAP Indenture;
• evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment of a successor or successors to
the Trustee and/or the Paying Agent, Transfer Agent, Calculation Agent and Registrar, as
applicable;
• add to the covenants of, or the restrictions, conditions or provisions applicable to, the
Issuer and any Guarantor, as the case may be, such further covenants, restrictions,
conditions or provisions as the Issuer and any Guarantor, as the case may be, shall
consider to be for the protection of the holders of the applicable Notes issued pursuant to
the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, including to eliminate one or both prongs of the release
provision under “—Guarantees—Release”, and to make the occurrence, or the
occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions,
conditions or provisions an Event of Default under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture
permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in the 2017
BATCAP Indenture; provided that, in respect of any such additional covenant, restriction,
condition or provision, such supplemental indenture may provide for a particular period
of grace after default (which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of
other defaults) or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such an Event of
Default;
93
[[6543924]]
• if required by the requirements of the SEC, comply with any requirements of the SEC in
connection with the qualification of the 2017 BATCAP Indenture under the TIA;
• modify the restrictions on, and procedures for, resale and other transfers of the applicable
Notes pursuant to law, regulation or practice relating to the resale or transfer of restricted
securities generally;
• cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the 2017
BATCAP Indenture, the Notes, or the Guarantees which may be defective or inconsistent
with any other provision contained therein or to make such other provision in regard to
matters or questions arising under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes or the
Guarantees as the Issuer, any Guarantor or the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable
and which will not, in the opinion of the Issuer or any Guarantor, adversely affect the
interests of the holders of the applicable Notes in any material respect;
• issue an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Notes under the 2017 BATCAP
Indenture or to “reopen” the applicable series of Notes and create and issue additional
notes having identical terms and conditions as the applicable Notes (or in all respects
except for the issue date, issue price, payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date
of such additional notes and/or the first payment of interest following the issue date of
such additional notes) so that the additional notes are consolidated and form a single
series with the outstanding applicable Notes; and
• evidence the addition of any new Guarantor of the Notes and the 2017 BATCAP
Indenture, or the release of any Guarantor from its obligations with respect to the Notes
and the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, in either case pursuant to the terms of the 2017
BATCAP Indenture.
With Consent of Noteholders
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer, each Guarantor and the
Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount
of all series of the Notes affected by such supplemental indenture (voting as one class) at the
time outstanding under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture (including consents obtained in connection
with a tender offer or exchange offer for the applicable Notes), from time to time and at any
time, to enter into a supplemental indenture for the purpose of amending, waiving or otherwise
modifying the provisions of the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees, or
adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the
applicable Notes or of modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the applicable Notes;
provided, that no such supplemental indenture may, without the consent of the holder of each of
the Notes so affected:
• change the stated maturity of the applicable Note of, or the date for payment of any
principal of, or installment of interest on, any applicable Note; or
• reduce the principal amount of or the rate or amount of interest on any applicable Note or
Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto or reduce the amount payable thereon
94
[[6543924]]
in the event of redemption or default or change the method for determining the interest
rate thereon; or
• change the currency of payment of principal of or interest on any applicable Note or
Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto; or change the obligation of the Issuer
or any Guarantor, as the case may be, to pay Additional Amounts (except as otherwise
permitted by such applicable Note); or
• impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or with
respect to any applicable Note; or
• reduce the percentage of the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Notes
outstanding the consent of whose holders is required for any such supplemental
indenture; or
• reduce the aggregate principal amount of any applicable Note outstanding necessary to
modify or amend the 2017 BATCAP Indenture or any such Note or to waive any future
compliance or past default or reduce the quorum requirements or the percentage of
aggregate principal amount of any applicable Notes outstanding required for the adoption
of any action at any meeting of holders of such Notes or to reduce the percentage of the
aggregate principal amount of such Notes outstanding necessary to rescind or annul any
declaration of the principal of all accrued and unpaid interest on any Note to be due and
payable,
provided, that no consent of any holder of any applicable Note shall be necessary to permit the
Trustee, the Issuer and each of the Guarantors to execute supplemental indenture as described
under “ —Without Consent of Noteholders” above.
Any modifications, amendments or waivers to the 2017 BATCAP Indenture or to the conditions
of the applicable Notes will be conclusive and binding on all holders of the applicable Notes,
whether or not they have consented to such action or were present at the meeting at which such
action was taken, and on all future holders of the applicable Notes, whether or not notation of
such modifications, amendments or waivers is made upon such Notes. Any instrument given by
or on behalf of any holder of such a Note in connection with any consent to any such
modification, amendment or waiver will be irrevocable once given and will be conclusive and
binding on all subsequent registered holders of such Note.
PRESCRIPTION
Under New York’s statute of limitations, any legal action upon the Notes in respect of interest or
principal must be commenced within six years after the payment thereof is due.
NOTICE
Notices to holders of Notes will be given by first-class mail postage prepaid to the last addresses
of such holders as they appear in the Notes register; provided, no such mailing shall be required
if Notes are held through DTC, as such notice shall be given in accordance with applicable
95
[[6543924]]
procedures of DTC. Such notices will be deemed to have been given on the date of such
publication or mailing.
So long as any Global Notes representing the Notes are held in their entirety on behalf of a
clearing system, or any of its participants, there may be substituted for the publication and
mailing of notice to holders of Notes described above the delivery of the relevant notices to the
clearing system, and its participants, for communication by them to the entitled accountholders.
Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the day on which the said notice was
given to the clearing system, and its participants.
LISTING
The Notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
CONSENT TO SERVICE
Each of the non-U.S. Guarantors has initially designated BATCAP as their authorized agent for
service of process in any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the
performance of its obligations under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture and the Notes brought in any
state or federal court in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, and will irrevocably
submit (but for those purposes only) to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any
such suit, action or proceeding.
GOVERNING LAW
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture, Notes and Guarantees shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of
laws thereof.
REGARDING THE TRUSTEE AND AGENTS
Wilmington Trust, National Association is the trustee under the 2017 BATCAP Indenture.
Citibank, N.A., London Branch has been appointed by the Issuer to act as registrar, transfer
agent, calculation agent and paying agent for the Notes. Citibank, N.A., New York Branch
replaced Citibank, N.A., London Branch as paying agent, registrar, transfer agent and calculation
agent on October 16, 2018. From time to time, Citibank, N.A., London Branch, Citibank, N.A.,
New York Branch and their respective affiliates perform various other services for the BAT and
its affiliates. The 2017 BATCAP Indenture contains limitations on the rights of the trustee, if it
becomes a creditor of the Issuer or any Guarantor, to obtain payment of claims in some cases, or
to realize on property received in respect of any of these claims as security or otherwise. The
Trustee is permitted to engage in other transactions. However, if the Trustee acquires any
conflicting interest (as defined in the TIA), it must either eliminate its conflict within 90 days,
apply to the SEC for permission to continue or resign.
The 2017 BATCAP Indenture provides that except during the continuance of an Event of
Default, the Trustee will perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in such 2017
BATCAP Indenture. During the continuance of an Event of Default of which the Trustee has
received written notice, the Trustee will exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it under
96
[[6543924]]
the 2017 BATCAP Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a
prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person’s
own affairs.
97
[[6543924]]
Exhibit 4.9
BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c.
and
SORAYA BENCHIKH
SERVICE AGREEMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Clause Headings Page
1. DEFINITIONS ................................................................................................................. 1
2. APPOINTMENT .............................................................................................................. 1
3. DUTIES .......................................................................................................................... 1
4. OTHER INTERESTS ...................................................................................................... 2
5. INDEMNITIES ................................................................................................................ 3
6. REMUNERATION .......................................................................................................... 5
7. EXPENSES AND INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE ..................................... 6
8. DEDUCTIONS ................................................................................................................ 6
9. MOTOR CAR .................................................................................................................. 6
10. PENSION AND OTHER BENEFITS .............................................................................. 6
11. SICKNESS BENEFIT ..................................................................................................... 7
12. HOLIDAYS ..................................................................................................................... 8
13. REASONABLENESS OF RESTRICTIONS ................................................................... 8
14. CONFIDENTIALITY........................................................................................................ 9
15. COPYRIGHT, INVENTIONS AND PATENTS .............................................................. 10
16. POST-TERMINATION COVENANTS .......................................................................... 11
17. TERMINATION ............................................................................................................. 12
18. DIRECTORSHIPS ........................................................................................................ 14
19. WAIVER OF RIGHTS ................................................................................................... 15
20. GRIEVANCE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES ................................................... 15
21. MISCELLANEOUS ....................................................................................................... 15
22. CONSTRUCTION ......................................................................................................... 15
23. PRIOR AGREEMENTS ................................................................................................ 16
24. ENFORCEMENT AND GOVERNING LAW ................................................................. 16
25. DATA PROTECTION ................................................................................................... 16
26. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES ................................................................ 17
27. REFERENCES ............................................................................................................. 17
28. COUNTERPARTS ........................................................................................................ 17
SCHEDULE 1.................................................................................................................................... 19
DEFINITIONS ................................................................................................................................... 19
SCHEDULE 2 POST TERMINATION COVENANTS ....................................................................... 23
THIS AGREEMENT is made on 1st November 2023
BETWEEN:
(1) BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c., a company incorporated in England and Wales with
registered number 03407696 whose registered office is at Globe House, 4 Temple Place,
London WC2R 2PG (the "Company"); and
(2) SORAYA BENCHIKH of [ADDRESS] (the"Executive").
WHEREAS: The Board has approved the terms of this Agreement under which the Executive is to
be employed.
IT IS AGREED THAT:
1. DEFINITIONS
Schedule 1 contains the definitions for words and phrases for the purposes of this
Agreement.
2. APPOINTMENT
2.1 The Company shall employ the Executive and the Executive shall serve the Company as the
Group Financial Officer with effect from the Effective Date subject to the terms and conditions
specified herein.
2.2 The Employment commences on the Effective Date and, subject to Clause 17 below, shall
continue thereafter until termination by not less than 12 months' prior written notice given by
either party to the other.
2.3 No probationary period applies to the Executive’s Employment.
2.4 The Executive's period of continuous employment commences on the Effective Date and no
previous employment with any other employer shall be treated as continuous with the
Employment.
3. DUTIES
3.1 The Executive shall during the continuance of her employment devote all such time, attention
and skill as may be required for the proper performance of her duties hereunder, and shall
at all times promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole
and, save where there is any conflict with the success of the Company, the success of its
Group Companies and she shall comply with the directors' duties set out in the Companies
Act 2006, and shall also faithfully and diligently perform such duties and exercise such
powers consistent therewith as may from time to time be assigned to or vested in her by the
Board or the Company.
3.2 The Company reserves the right to assign to the Executive duties of a different nature either
additional to or instead of those referred to in Clause 3.1 above on terms and conditions no
less favourable than the terms and conditions set out herein, it being understood that she
will not be assigned duties which she cannot reasonably perform or which are inconsistent
with her status and subject always to the directors' duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
3.3 The Executive shall obey the reasonable and lawful orders of the Board, given by or with the
authority of the Board, and shall comply with all the Company's rules, regulations, policies
and procedures from time to time in force, unless any of the foregoing are inconsistent with
this Agreement, and all laws, codes of conduct, rules and regulations, in all relevant
jurisdictions, relevant to the Company or to any Group Company or to her as a director of
the Company or as an office-holder of any Group Company, including, without limitation,
pursuant to MAR, the LPDT Rules, the City Code on Take-Overs and Mergers, the JSE
Listings Requirements, the UK Corporate Governance Code and all applicable US SEC rules
1
and regulations.
3.4 The Executive shall promptly provide the Board with all such information as it may require in
connection with the business or affairs of the Company and of any other Group Company for
which she is required to perform duties.
3.5 The Executive may be required in pursuance of her duties to perform services not only for
the Company but also for any Group Company and, without further remuneration (except as
otherwise agreed), to accept any such office or position with the Company, as the Board or
the Company may from time to time reasonably require. The Company may at its sole
discretion assign the Executive's employment to any Group Company on the same terms
and conditions as set out herein.
3.6 The Executive shall promptly disclose to the Board full details of any knowledge or suspicion
she has that any employee or officer of the Company or any Group Company has or plans
to commit any serious wrongdoing or serious breach of duty or other act which might
materially damage the interests of the Company or its Group Companies or if any such
employee or officer, or the Executive herself, plans to leave their employment or to join or
establish a business in competition with the Company or any of its Group Companies
(including details of any steps taken to implement any such plan).
3.7 The Executive shall work such hours as are necessary for the proper performance of her
duties of employment, which shall as a minimum include 35.5 hours per week from Monday
to Friday in accordance with the policy set out from time to time in the Company's HR Policies
and Procedures on the Hub.
3.8 The parties agree that the nature of the Executive's position is such that her Employment is
not and cannot be measured and so the Employment falls within the scope of regulation 20
Working Time Regulations 1998 (as amended).
3.9 The Executive's normal place of work shall be the Company's principal United Kingdom office
from time to time or such other location at which the Company may from time to time require
the Executive to base herself. The Executive agrees to travel (both within and outside of the
United Kingdom) as may be required for the proper performance of her duties and of the
Employment. It is a fundamental condition of the Employment that the Executive will at all
times be fully mobile throughout the United Kingdom and the world and can be required by
the Company at any time to relocate to any other location in the world.
3.10 The Executive is required to undertake any and all mandatory training specified by the
Company from time to time as being necessary for the purposes of performing their role.
Where such mandatory training is specified by the Company, the costs of such training shall
be met by the Company. The Executive will also be entitled to take part in various training
courses appropriate to the Executive's role which the Company may provide in-house from
time to time, details of which can be found on the Hub.
4. OTHER INTERESTS
4.1 During the period of the Employment the Executive shall devote her full time and attention
to her duties hereunder and shall not without the prior written consent of the Board (such
consent not to be unreasonably refused) directly or indirectly either on her own account or
on behalf of any other person, company, business entity or other organisation:
4.1.1 (i) engage in, or (ii) be concerned with, or (iii) provide services to, (whether as an
employee, officer, director, agent, partner, consultant or otherwise), or (iv) have
any financial or other interest in, or (v) make preparations to be engaged or
interested in or concerned with or to provide services to, any other business; or
4.1.2 accept any other engagement or public office which may adversely affect the
proper and efficient performance of her duties hereunder; or
4.1.3 have any other personal or financial interest in a business which has transactions
or dealings with the Company or any other Group Company (save for passive
investments through any tracker funds or any other passive investment vehicles);
PROVIDED THAT:
2
(A) the Executive may not, at any time, hold more than one external mandate as a
Non-Executive Director of a Listed Company; and
(B) the Executive may hold for investment purposes an interest (as defined in S.820 -
825 of the Companies Act 2006) of up to 5% in nominal value or (in the case of
Securities not having any nominal value) in number or class of Securities, in any
class of Securities in a Listed Company and which are not the Securities of any
company which competes or proposes to compete with the business of the
Company or any Group Company. For this purpose, the references to Securities
held by the Executive includes Securities held or beneficially held by the
Executive's Immediate Family.
4.2 The Executive confirms that she has disclosed fully to the Company all circumstances in
respect of which there is, or there might be, a direct or indirect conflict of interest between
the Company or any Group Company, and the Executive, and she agrees to disclose fully
and in writing to the Company any such circumstances which may arise during the
Employment (including, but not limited to, where the holding of Securities by members of her
Immediate Family puts, or is likely to put, the Executive in breach of the 5% limit referred to
in Clause 4.1 above).
4.3 The Executive is required to note the formal procedures established by the Board for
managing compliance with the conflict of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Under these provisions the Executive:
4.3.1 may not allow any situation to arise in which she will have, or may have, a direct or
indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the
Company (a situational conflict), unless the matter has been authorised in advance
by the Board in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company; and
4.3.2 she must declare in advance any interest in a proposed transaction or arrangement
with the Company (a transactional conflict).
4.4 The Executive is required to give advance notice of any situational or transactional conflict
to the Company Secretary and any such matter will be considered either at the next meeting
of the Board or, if the conflict or potential conflict is due to arise prior to the next scheduled
meeting of the Board, at a meeting of the Conflicts Committee. Details of the role and
responsibilities of the Conflicts Committee are set out in the British American Tobacco
Corporate Governance Framework, a copy of which is available from the Company Secretary
from time to time.
4.5 For the purposes of Clauses 4.1 and 4.3, the provisions of S. 820 - 825 of Companies Act
2006 shall apply for determining whether the Executive has an interest in any Securities.
4.6 The Executive undertakes that she will at all times:
4.6.1 comply with all rules of law or regulation of any competent authority or of the
Company, including the Company's Code for Share Dealing, from time to time in
force in relation to dealing in the Securities of the Company and inside information
affecting the Securities of the Company; and
4.6.2 comply with the Company's Standards of Business Conduct Policy from time to
time in force.
5. INDEMNITIES
5.1 Subject to Clause 5.2 below, the Company shall, both during the Employment and after its
termination, indemnify the Executive and keep her indemnified against and to pay to her an
amount equal to all costs, charges, expenses or liabilities which the Executive may sustain
or incur in or about the execution of her duties to the Company or of any associated company
of the Company or as a result of any contract, deed, matter or thing done, entered into or
executed herself on behalf of any such company or in relation to the business of any such
company.
5.2 The indemnity referred to in Clause 5.1 shall not apply in any of the following circumstances:
3
5.2.1 where and to the extent that any recovery is made by the Executive under any
policy of insurance;
5.2.2 where and to the extent prohibited or rendered unenforceable by the Companies
Act 2006 or, in the case of an associated company which is not subject to the
Companies Act 2006, to the extent that it would have been prohibited by the
Companies Act 2006 had the Companies Act 2006 applied to it, or as otherwise
prohibited by law;
5.2.3 where the Company considers that the Executive has acted in bad faith, with wilful
default or gross negligence, dishonestly, fraudulently, intentionally not in
compliance with the Company's Standards of Business Conduct Policy (as from
time to time in force) or otherwise so as to bring the Company or any of its
associated companies into disrepute; and
5.2.4 where and to the extent any claim against the Executive relates to acts (or
omissions) of the Executive which, directly or indirectly, result in the summary
dismissal of the Executive by the Company or any associated company of the
Company.
5.3 The indemnity provided in Clause 5.1 shall take effect notwithstanding that the Company (or
any associated companies) or the Executive may have purchased and maintained insurance
cover in respect of any liability, loss or expenditure incurred by any director or officer of the
Company and the indemnity provided under Clause 5.1 above shall be enforceable against
the Company regardless of whether a claim may be made or has been pursued under such
insurance.
5.4 All sums payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid free and without any rights of
counterclaim or set-off and without deduction and withholding on any ground whatsoever,
save only as may be required by law. If any such deduction or withholding is required by law,
the Company shall be obliged to pay to the Executive such amount as will ensure that, after
any such deduction or withholding has been made, the Executive shall have received a sum
equal to the amount that she would otherwise have received in the absence of any such
deduction or withholding.
5.5 If the Executive becomes aware of any notice, demand or other document issued, any claim
made or action taken either before or after the date hereof which appears to her, acting
reasonably, to be relevant for the purposes of the indemnity provided in Clause 5.1 or likely
to give rise to any liability of the Company under that indemnity (hereinafter referred to as a
"Demand"), she shall give notice thereof to the Company as soon as reasonably practicable
and in any event within 30 days.
5.6 The Executive shall provide the Company as soon as reasonably practicable with all
supporting documentation and information relating to a Demand as the Company may
reasonably require.
5.7 The Executive shall not take or omit to take any action which the Executive should
reasonably be aware would prejudice the Company's ability to recover the loss in respect of
the Demand under any applicable policy of insurance maintained by the Company, and the
Executive shall take such steps as the Company may reasonably require to comply with the
terms of any applicable policy of insurance.
5.8 The Executive shall, at the request and at the expense of the Company, do and concur in
doing and permit to be done all such acts and things as the Company may reasonably
request to avoid, dispute, resist, appeal or compromise any Demand. The Executive shall
further make no settlement or compromise of the subject matter of any Demand, nor agree
to any matter in the conduct of any dispute in relation thereto, nor admit nor assume any
liability, nor take any other action or omit to do any other thing in relation to any Demand
without the prior written approval of the Company (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).
5.9 The Company may, by written notice to the Executive at any time and without prejudice to
the rights of indemnification of the Executive set out in Clause 5.1 above, forthwith assume
4
(where appropriate, in the Executive's name) the conduct of any negotiations, settlement or
compromise discussions or proceedings in relation to a Demand. The Company shall have
full discretion in the conduct or settlement of any claim or proceedings. The Executive shall
take such steps, and provide such information, as the Company may reasonably require to
assist in the conduct and settlement of such claims or proceedings.
5.10 The Executive shall provide the Company as soon as reasonably practicable following any
request with reasonable details of all costs and liabilities incurred by the Executive in relation
to any Demand.
5.11 The rights and obligations set out in this Clause 5 shall not modify or waive any of the duties
which the Executive owes as a director, officer or employee of the Company or any of its
associated companies (as the case may be), as a matter of law or under the rules of any
relevant stock exchange or regulatory body.
5.12 The Company shall, in the event that a payment is made to the Executive under this
indemnity in respect of a particular liability, be entitled to recover from the Executive an
amount equal to any payment received by the Executive under any policy of insurance or
from any other third party to the extent that such payment relates to the liability, and a
deduction may similarly be made from any payment made by the Company to the extent any
such payment has already been received by the Executive. The Executive shall pay any sum
owing in accordance with the foregoing forthwith upon the Company's request.
5.13 To the extent any payment of costs under Clause 5.1 of this indemnity is treated under the
Companies Act 2006 as a loan repayable to the Company, subject to the Companies Act
2006 and provided that the requirements for a qualifying third party indemnity provision are
met, the Executive shall not be required to repay the loan.
5.14 For the purposes of this Clause 5, "associated company" and "qualifying third party
indemnity provision" have the meanings given in Part 10 of the Companies Act 2006.
6. REMUNERATION
6.1 With effect from the Effective Date the Executive shall receive a base salary of £800,000 per
annum.
6.2 The base salary provided for in Clause 6.1 above shall accrue from day to day and shall be
payable monthly in equal instalments part in arrears and part in advance on or about the
11th of each month by way of credit transfer and shall be paid subject to deduction of income
tax and national insurance contributions.
6.3 The Remuneration Committee shall review the Executive's salary at least once in each
twelve months (with the first review taking place in 2025) save after notice of termination of
this Agreement has been served by either party, but shall not be obliged to make any
increase in the salary.
6.4 In addition to her salary, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in such annual and/or
long-term incentive arrangements as the Company may determine in its absolute discretion
from time to time, on such terms and at such level as the Remuneration Committee may from
time to time determine. The Company reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of
or terminate any such incentive schemes and to alter the level of the Executive's participation
therein without reference to or agreement from the Executive. The Executive acknowledges
that during the course of her employment and on its termination she has no right to receive
a bonus and/or other incentive award and that the Remuneration Committee is under no
obligation to operate a bonus and/or long-term incentive scheme and that she will not acquire
such a right, nor shall the Remuneration Committee come under such an obligation, merely
by virtue of the Executive's having received one or more bonus and/or other incentive
award(s) or the Remuneration Committee's having operated one or more bonus and/or
incentive scheme(s) during the course of the Executive's employment.
6.5 The remuneration specified in Clause 6.1 above shall be inclusive of all fees and other
remuneration to which the Executive may be entitled as an officer of the Company or of any
Group Company. To achieve this, the Executive shall account for any sums she receives to
5
the Company and her salary shall be reduced by the amount of such sums (and the
Executive hereby authorises the Company to make any such reduction(s)).
6.6 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all remuneration payments (including payments
for loss of office and benefits) due to the Executive (including any such payment due
pursuant to this Agreement) will only be payable or provided if and to the extent that they are
either consistent with the most recent remuneration policy approved by members of the
Company pursuant to section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 (the "Directors’
Remuneration Policy") or are separately approved by resolution of the members of the
Company, and any provision of this Agreement relation to the making of any such payment
or provision shall only be enforceable to such extent.
7. EXPENSES AND INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE
7.1 The Company shall reimburse (or procure the reimbursement of) to the Executive (against
receipts or other satisfactory evidence) all reasonable business expenses properly and
reasonably incurred and defrayed by her in the course of the Employment, subject to the
Company's rules and policies relating to expenses.
7.2 The Executive's expenses may include legal fees if it is necessary in the furtherance of the
Executive's duties for her to seek independent legal advice (provided that allegations of
negligence, breach of duty or bad faith have not been made against the Executive).
Accordingly, the Board has approved a procedure for taking independent advice in such
circumstances. Any such payment by the Company is subject to any applicable restriction
under company law.
7.3 Further to Clause 7.2 above, the advice and services of the Company Secretary and of the
Director, Legal Affairs & General Counsel of British American Tobacco are available to each
director of the Company for guidance on the director's responsibilities and those of the Board
and in relation to any specific activity or transaction of the Company. It is recognised that
there may be occasions when the Executive may need to have independent professional
advice in connection with the performance of the Executive's duties as a director of the
Company and that this should be paid for by the Company.
7.4 In such an instance, the Executive should first refer the matter to the Company Secretary
and confirm with her that it is a matter for which independent professional advice is required
in the interests of the Company. Where this requirement arises, the Executive should also
consult with the Company Secretary in order that regard may be had to any potential conflicts
of interest that may arise in such a situation.
8. DEDUCTIONS
The Company shall be entitled at any time during the Employment, or in any event on its
termination, to deduct from the Executive's remuneration hereunder any monies due from
her to the Company including but not limited to any outstanding loans, advances, relocation
expenses, the cost of repairing any damage or loss to the Company's property caused by
her (and of recovering the same), excess holiday, any sums due from her under Clause 12.2
below and any other monies owed by her to the Company.
9. MOTOR CAR
9.1 During the continuance of her employment, the Executive shall be entitled to the use of a car
and a driver, for personal and/or business use, and shall be paid a company car allowance
of £20,000 per annum, in each case subject to and in accordance with any Executive
Directors’ car policy from time to time and the Company's current Directors’ Remuneration
Policy.
10. PENSION AND OTHER BENEFITS
10.1 The Executive shall be eligible to participate in such pension arrangements, including the
provisions for life assurance benefits (and on such terms) as the Remuneration Committee
may from time to time determine and communicate to the Executive in its absolute discretion,
subject to and in accordance with the rules of such arrangements (including those relating
6
to auto-enrolment and lifetime and annual allowances) and the Company's current Directors’
Remuneration Policy. Further details (including arrangements relating to salary sacrifice)
can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
10.2 The Executive shall be eligible to participate in the following benefits schemes: private
medical expenses scheme and personal accident scheme, subject to the terms and
conditions of such schemes from time to time in force. Details of such scheme(s) can be
obtained from the Company's HR Policies and Procedures on Success Factors. The
Executive shall also be eligible to participate in such other benefits as the Remuneration
Committee may from time to time determine and communicate to the Executive in its
absolute discretion, subject to and in accordance with the rules of such arrangements and
the Company's current Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
10.3 The Company reserves the right to terminate or substitute other scheme(s)/pension
arrangements for such scheme(s)/pension arrangements or to amend the scale of benefits
of such scheme(s)/pension arrangements including the level of benefits. If any scheme
provider (including but not limited to any insurance company) refuses for any reason
(whether based on its own interpretation of the terms of the insurance policy or otherwise) to
provide any benefits to the Executive, the Company shall not be liable to provide any such
benefits itself or any compensation in lieu thereof.
10.4 Any actual or prospective loss of entitlement to benefit under any long-term disability or
private medical expenses benefits shall not limit or prevent the Company from exercising its
right to terminate the Employment in accordance with Clauses 2 or 17 hereof.
10.5 To the extent that any benefit provided to the Executive under this Agreement is taxable, the
Company shall, as appropriate, and if required by law, withhold an amount in respect of the
income tax and employee's National Insurance Contributions due on the taxable value of
that benefit.
11. SICKNESS BENEFIT
11.1 In the event of the Executive being absent from work due to sickness or injury, the Company
will continue to pay her normal salary (inclusive of any Statutory Sick Pay to which she may
be entitled) for a period of up to 12 weeks during any rolling period of 12 months ("Company
Sick Pay"). Thereafter, the payment of any further sick pay will be at the discretion of the
Company and subject to the Company's Sick Pay Policy from time to time. Company Sick
Pay will be based on the Executive's normal salary less any State benefits claimable by the
Executive on account of her sickness or injury, less normal deductions. The Executive's
entitlement to Company Sick Pay is subject to her compliance with the sickness notification
requirements set out in the Company's HR Policies and Procedures on the Hub.
11.2 Irrespective of Clause 11.1 above, the Executive will receive Statutory Sick Pay ("SSP")
when the Executive qualifies for it, although where Company Sick Pay and Statutory Sick
Pay are payable for the same day of sickness absence, the Executive will receive the higher
of the two sums. Further details on Statutory Sick Pay are set out in the Company's HR
Policies and Procedures on the Hub.
11.3 The Company reserves the right to require the Executive to undergo a medical examination
by a doctor or consultant nominated by it, in which event the Company will bear the cost
thereof. The Executive shall authorise the doctor to disclose to and discuss with the Board
(and, in the first instance, the Chair of the Board) the results of the examination. The
Executive acknowledges that the Company will process her personal data and special
categories of personal data disclosed by the doctor in accordance with the Company's UK
Employee Privacy Notice.
11.4 The Executive's entitlement to Company Sick Pay is subject to the Company's right to
terminate the Employment in accordance with this Agreement.
11.5 If the illness, accident or other incapacity shall be, or appear to be, caused by actionable
negligence of a third party in respect of which damages are or may be recoverable, the
Executive shall immediately notify the Board of that fact and of any claim, compromise,
settlement or judgment made or awarded in connection with it. The Company in its discretion
7
may require the Executive to take all reasonable steps to recover from such third party or its
insurers compensation including repayment of all sums paid to her by the Company under
this Clause in respect of such absence. The Executive shall also give to the Board all
particulars the Board may reasonably require and shall, if required by the Board and to the
extent permitted by law, refund all or such part of the sums paid to or for the benefit of her
by way of salary, bonus or benefits during the relevant period as the Board may reasonably
determine. The amount to be refunded shall not, however, exceed the amount of damages
or compensation and interest thereon recovered by the Executive, less any unrecovered
costs borne by her in connection with the recovery of such damages or compensation, and
shall not exceed the total remuneration paid to her by way of salary, bonus and benefits in
respect of the period of such illness, accident or other incapacity.
12. HOLIDAYS
12.1 The Executive shall be entitled to receive her normal remuneration for all Bank and Public
holidays normally observed in England and a further 25 working days' holiday in each holiday
year (the period from 1 January to 31 December). The Executive may only take her holiday
at such times as are agreed with the Chief Executive. The first 28 days of holiday taken in
the holiday year including public holidays shall be deemed to be the Executive's statutory
leave entitlement firstly under Regulation 13 and then under Regulation 13A of the Working
Time Regulations 1998. Save to the extent required by the Working Time Regulations 1998,
holidays may not be carried forward from one holiday year to the next save with the express
permission of the Chief Executive. No payment shall be made by the Company (during the
continuance or on termination of this Agreement) in lieu of holidays not taken except as
required by law or as set out under Clause 12.2 below. Save to the extent required by the
Working Time Regulations 1998, the Executive's entitlement under this Clause shall not
accrue during any period of absence from work due to sickness or injury in excess of 30
continuous Working Days or during any period of unpaid leave (excluding statutory shared
parental or adoption leave).
12.2 In the holiday year when the Employment ceases, the Executive will be treated as having
accrued holiday on a pro rata basis by reference to her last day at work. If on the cessation
of her employment the Executive has exceeded her holiday entitlement, this excess of
holiday taken will be deducted from any sums due to her. If the Executive has accrued
holiday entitlement which has not been taken prior to any period of notice to terminate, the
Company may at its sole discretion either require her to take such holiday during any period
of notice or pay her a sum in lieu of it. In either case (and for the purposes of Regulation 14
of the Working Time Regulations 1998) the payment shall be calculated by multiplying the
unused or excess entitlement (as the case may be) taken to the nearest whole day by 1/260
of the Executive's salary at that time or, if lower and to the extent permitted by law, the
Executive's salary at the time the relevant leave was accrued and, where the Executive is in
receipt of payments under a personal accident insurance scheme, the Executive's salary for
these purposes shall be deemed to be at the rate of the personal accident insurance
payments. If the Executive refuses to work out all or any part of her notice period, she will
forfeit any accrued holiday which has not been taken or such holiday entitlement equal to the
number of days which the Executive refuses to work during her notice period.
12.3 No holiday entitlement or pay shall be treated as accruing during any period covered by the
Compensation Payment.
13. REASONABLENESS OF RESTRICTIONS
The Executive recognises that, whilst performing her duties for the Company, she will have
access to and come into contact with trade secrets and Confidential Information belonging
to the Company or to Group Companies and will obtain personal knowledge of and influence
over its or their customers and/or employees. The Executive therefore agrees that the
restrictions contained or referred to in Clauses 14 and 15 and Schedule 2 are reasonable
and necessary to protect the legitimate business interests of the Company and its Group
Companies both during and after the termination of her employment.
8
14. CONFIDENTIALITY
14.1 The Executive shall neither during the Employment (except in the proper performance of her
duties or if authorised by the Board or required by law) nor at any time (without limit) after
the termination thereof, directly or indirectly:
14.1.1 use for her own purposes or those of any other person, company, business entity
or other organisation whatsoever; or
14.1.2 disclose to any person, company, business entity or other organisation
whatsoever; or
14.1.3 through any failure to exercise all due care and diligence cause or permit any
unauthorised disclosure of any Confidential Information.
14.2 The Executive shall not at any time during the continuance of her employment with the
Company make any notes or memoranda relating to any matter within the scope of the
Company's business, dealings or affairs otherwise than for the benefit of the Company or
any Group Company.
14.3 The Executive shall use her best endeavours during the continuance of her employment to
prevent the publication, disclosure or misuse of any Confidential Information and shall not
remove (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by emailing any Confidential Information to
third parties, any personal email accounts and/or saving any Confidential Information on any
cloud-based storage), nor authorise others to so remove, from the premises of the Company
or of any of its Group Companies any records of Confidential Information except to the extent
strictly necessary for the proper performance of her or the other person's duties to the
Company or any of its Group Companies.
14.4 The Executive shall promptly disclose to the Company full details of any knowledge or
suspicion she has (whether during or after her employment) of any actual, threatened or
pending publication, disclosure or misuse by any person (including the Executive herself) of
any Confidential Information and shall provide all reasonable assistance and co-operation
(at the Company’s expense) as the Company may request in connection with any action or
proceedings it may take or contemplate in respect of any such publication, disclosure or
misuse.
14.5 This Clause 14 is without prejudice to the Executive's equitable duty of confidence.
14.6 Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Executive from:
9
14.6.1 making a protected disclosure within the meaning of Part IVA (Protected
Disclosures) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 (as amended from time to time);
14.6.2 reporting an offence to the police or a law enforcement agency;
14.6.3 co-operating with a criminal investigation or prosecution;
14.6.4 reporting misconduct or a serious breach of regulatory requirement to a body
responsible for supervising or regulating relevant matters;
14.6.5 reporting, in the public interest, any serious wrongdoing to a law enforcement
agency or relevant regulator or an equivalent person or entity which has a proper
interest in receiving that information in the public interest;
14.6.6 communicating in confidence with the Executive's professional advisors
(including any tax, legal, medical and/or therapeutic advisors) and/or with the
Executive's spouse or registered civil partner or common-law spouse;
14.6.7 acting with statutory authority or complying with any order of, or giving evidence
to, a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction;
14.6.8 complying with any law, any regulations of any statutory or regulatory authority, or
any request of any government body (including, for the avoidance of doubt, HM
Revenue & Customs); and/or
14.6.9 using any relevant information for the purpose of representation at any
investigation or proceedings brought by an applicable regulatory or professional
body relating to matters arising from the Executive's employment.
This includes protected disclosures or reports made about matters previously disclosed to
another recipient.
14.7 The Company may at any time during the Employment require the Executive to deliver up to
it immediately all documents (including all notes, original documents, extracts and
summaries thereof), discs and other information storing medium relating to the business or
affairs of the Company or any Group Company which she obtained or made whilst an
employee of the Company. This obligation shall include all copies and reproductions of the
same, however made.
15. COPYRIGHT, INVENTIONS AND PATENTS
15.1 All records, documents, papers (including copies and summaries thereof) and Intellectual
Property Rights made, developed or acquired by the Executive in the course of the
Employment shall be, and at all times remain, the absolute property of the Company, and
the Executive hereby undertakes to keep confidential all information about, and details of,
such records and Intellectual Property Rights (unless otherwise permitted by the Company).
15.2 The Executive hereby assigns, wholly and absolutely and with full title guarantee, including
the right to sue for damages for past infringements, and by way of future assignment, to the
Company, all Intellectual Property Rights referred to in Clause 15.1 (including future
Intellectual Property Rights), for the full term thereof throughout the world, including any
extensions or renewals arising in respect of such Intellectual Property Rights. The Executive
hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives all moral rights, including rights granted by
Chapter IV of Part I of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, that vest in her (whether
before, on or after the date hereof) in connection with her authorship of any Intellectual
Property Rights in the course of her employment with the Company, wherever in the world
enforceable, including without limitation the right to be identified as the author of any
copyright works and the right not to have any such works subjected to derogatory treatment,
and hereby waives all similar moral rights in other jurisdictions.
15.3 The Company and the Executive acknowledge and accept the provisions of Sections 39 to
10
42 of the Patents Act 1977 (the "Act") relating to the ownership of employees' inventions and
the compensation of employees for certain inventions respectively.
15.4 The Executive acknowledges and agrees that, by virtue of the nature of her duties and the
responsibility arising, she has a special obligation to further the interests of the Company
within the meaning of Section 39(1)(b) of the Act.
15.5 Any invention, development, process, plan, design, formula, specification, program or other
matter or work whatsoever, whether or not patentable or capable of registration and whether
or not recorded in any medium, (collectively the "Inventions") made, developed or
discovered by the Executive, either alone or in concert, during the course of the Executive's
duties of employment for the Company shall forthwith be disclosed to the Company and,
subject to Section 39 of the Act, shall belong to and be the absolute property of the Company.
15.6 With respect to those rights in the Inventions which do not belong to the Company pursuant
to Clause 15.5 but which were made (wholly or partly, either alone or in concert) using the
Company's equipment, or (wholly or partly, either alone or in concert) using information
obtained during the course of the Executive's employment, or else are Inventions which are
or may be relevant to or related to the Company's existing or future business (collectively
"Executive Rights"), the Executive at the request and cost of the Company (and
notwithstanding the termination of her employment) shall forthwith license or assign (as
determined by the Company) to the Company the Executive Rights and shall deliver to the
Company all documents and other materials relating to the Inventions. The Company shall
pay to the Executive such compensation for the licence or assignment as the Company shall
determine in its absolute discretion, subject to Section 40 of the Act.
15.7 The Executive shall at the request and cost of the Company (and notwithstanding the
termination of her employment) sign and execute all such documents and do all such acts
as the Company may reasonably require:
15.7.1 to apply for and obtain in the sole name of the Company alone (unless the
Company otherwise directs) patent, registered design, or other protection of any
nature whatsoever in respect of the Intellectual Property Rights referred to in
Clause 15.1, or the Inventions, in any country throughout the world and, when so
obtained or vested, to renew and maintain the same;
15.7.2 to resist and defend any objection or opposition to obtaining, and any petitions or
applications for revocation or the invalidity of, and any claims of infringement in
respect of, any such Intellectual Property Rights;
15.7.3 to bring any proceedings for infringement of any such Intellectual Property Rights;
and
15.7.4 otherwise to give effect to the assignments, waivers and licences contemplated
under this Clause 15.
15.8 The Executive irrevocably appoints the Company to be her agent and in her name and on
her behalf to execute any documents and generally to act and to use her name for the
purpose of giving to the Company (or its nominee) the full benefit this Clause 15. A certificate
in writing signed by a director or the secretary of the Company that an instrument or act falls
within the authority conferred by this Clause 15 shall be conclusive evidence in favour of a
third party that it is the case.
15.9 The Company shall decide, in its sole discretion, whenever to apply for patent, registered
design or other protection in respect of the Intellectual Property Rights referred to in Clause
15.1 and/ or the Inventions and reserves the right to work any of the Inventions as a secret
process in which event the Executive shall observe the obligations relating to Confidential
Information which are contained in Clause 14 of this Agreement.
16. POST-TERMINATION COVENANTS
16.1 The Executive agrees that she will observe the post-termination obligations set out in
Schedule 2 hereto. The Executive acknowledges that she has had the opportunity to take
legal advice in relation to the restrictions contained therein and that she considers them
11
reasonable and necessary for the protection of the legitimate interests of the Company and
its Group Companies.
16.2 The Executive agrees that in the event of receiving from any person, company, business
entity or other organisation an offer of employment or engagement either during the
continuance of the Agreement or during the continuance in force of any of the restrictions
set out in Schedule 2 annexed hereto, she will forthwith provide to such person, company,
business entity or other organisation making such an offer of employment a full and accurate
copy of the restrictions set out in Clauses 14 and 15 hereof, and Schedule 2 annexed hereto.
In the event that the Executive accepts any such offer, she shall immediately inform the
Board of the identity of the offeror and a description of the principal duties of the position
accepted and shall confirm to the Board in writing that she has provided a copy of such
restrictions to such offeror.
17. TERMINATION
17.1 Notwithstanding Clause 2, and in addition to its rights at common law, the Company may
terminate the Employment with immediate effect and without any payment in lieu of notice if,
in the Board's reasonable opinion, any of the events set out below occur or have occurred at
any time (whether or not such event would otherwise be a repudiatory breach):
17.1.1 any of the representations and warranties in Clause 26 are materially inaccurate
or untrue or misleading;
17.1.2 the Executive is guilty of dishonesty, or other serious misconduct, or gross
incompetence or wilful neglect of duty, or commits any other serious or persistent
breach of this Agreement;
17.1.3 the Executive refuses or neglects to comply with any lawful directions given to the
Executive by the Company;
17.1.4 the Executive acts in any manner (whether in the course of her duties or otherwise)
which is likely to bring her, or the Company or any Group Company into disrepute
or prejudice the interests of the Company or any Group Company;
17.1.5 the Executive is declared bankrupt, applies for or has made against her a receiving
order under Section 286 Insolvency Act 1986, or has any order made against her
to reach a voluntary arrangement as defined by Section 253 of that Act or
compounded with her creditors;
17.1.6 the Executive resigns as a director of the Company or any Group Company
(without the Board's written consent) or fails to offer herself for re-election on her
retiring by rotation (unless agreed by the Company);
17.1.7 the Executive is or becomes of unsound mind;
17.1.8 the Executive is guilty of continuing unsatisfactory conduct or poor performance of
her duties, after having received a written warning from the Company relating to
the same;
17.1.9 the Executive is convicted of an indictable offence (excluding offences under road
traffic legislation for which she is not sentenced to a term of imprisonment); or
17.1.10 the Executive is or becomes prohibited by law from being a director.
Any delay by the Company in exercising such right to termination shall not constitute a waiver
thereof. This Clause 17.1 shall not restrict any other right the Company may have (whether
at common law or otherwise) to terminate the Employment summarily.
17.2 On termination of the Employment or on the Executive being placed on garden leave
pursuant to Clause 17.3.2 is so requested by the Company, the Executive shall forthwith
return to the Company in accordance with its instructions (and without destruction, deletion
or redaction of any data or images) all equipment, correspondence, records, specifications,
software, models, notes, reports, minutes of meetings and other papers of the Board and of
any board of directors of any Group Company, and any other documents and any copies
thereof and any other property belonging to the Company or its Group Companies (including
12
but not limited to the Company car, keys, credit cards, samples, equipment and passes)
which are in her possession or under her control and shall provide to the Company full details
of all then current passwords or other privacy or security measures used by the Executive in
respect of any such equipment. Having forwarded a copy to the Company, the Executive
shall irretrievably delete any and all Confidential Information from any laptops, computer
drives, computer storage equipment, mobile telephones, wireless devices (or similar
equipment) or other re-usable material and/or from any website and/or email account and/or
cloud-based storage in the Executive's possession or under her control (but which do not
belong to the Company or any of its Group Companies). The Executive shall, if so required
by the Company, confirm in writing her compliance with her obligations under this Clause
17.2.
17.3 The Executive agrees that the Company may (in its absolute discretion):
17.3.1 (as an alternative to giving notice to the Executive or requiring the Executive to
work out her notice) terminate the Executive's employment with immediate effect
by giving her written notice that it will give the Executive a Compensation Payment
in lieu of all or any part of any notice of termination of employment (whether given
by the Executive or the Company) to which, for the avoidance of doubt, the
Executive shall have no entitlement unless and until the Company notifies the
Executive in writing of its decision to make the Compensation Payment to her;
and/or
17.3.2 require the Executive not to attend work and/or not to undertake all or any of her
duties hereunder during all or any part of any period of notice (whether given by
the Executive or the Company), PROVIDED ALWAYS that the Company shall
continue to pay the Executive's salary and contractual benefits. During any such
garden leave period, the Company shall not be obliged to provide any work for the
Executive or to assign or vest in her any powers, duties or functions, and
(A) may appoint another person or persons to hold the same or similar job title
and carry out all or any of the Executive's duties instead of her;
(B) may announce externally or internally or both that the Executive has given
or been given notice of termination of her employment or office(s) and been
placed on garden leave and (where applicable) that a substitute has been
appointed;
(C) may exclude the Executive from all or any premises of the Company or any
Group Company;
(D) may require the Executive to abstain from engaging in any contact
(whether or not initiated by her) which concerns any of the business affairs
of the Company or any Group Company with any customer, client, supplier,
other business connection, employee, director, officer, consultant or agent
of the Company or any Group Company without the prior written consent
of the Board; and
(E) may suspend or limit the Executive's access to the Company's IT and
communications systems or databases.
During any such garden leave period, the Executive shall (for the avoidance of
doubt) continue to be bound by all terms of this Agreement and the duties of fidelity
and good faith and cannot undertake work for any other entity or work in a self
employed or contractor capacity and shall hold herself available during normal
business hours (other than agreed holidays or authorised absence for sickness or
injury or other authorised leave) to perform such duties as may be assigned to her,
if any, and in the event that she fails to make herself available for duties assigned
to her, she shall (notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement) forfeit her
right to salary and contractual benefits in respect of such period of non-availability.
13
The Executive shall have no right to be paid any bonus during any garden leave
period other than at the discretion of the Company.
17.4 Notwithstanding Clause 17.3.1, the Executive shall not be entitled to any Compensation
Payment pursuant to Clause 17.3.1 if the Company would otherwise have been entitled to
terminate the employment of the Executive without notice in accordance with Clause 17.1.
In the event that the Board reasonably considers that any of the events set out in Clause
17.1 has occurred (whether or not such event would otherwise be a repudiatory breach), the
Executive shall repay to the Company forthwith on demand by the Company an amount
equal to any Compensation Payment made to the Executive pursuant to Clause 17.3.1 and,
the Company reserves the right and may in its absolute discretion seek to recover the value
of any income tax or National Insurance Contributions deducted from any such
Compensation Payment and paid by the Company and the Company shall be entitled to
reduce any Compensation Payment yet to be made pursuant to Clause 17.3.1 to nil or such
other amount as the Board in its absolute discretion determines.
17.5 In determining any Compensation Payment made to the Executive pursuant to Clause
17.3.1, the Company shall have regard to the overriding requirements to be fair to both the
Company and the Executive. In particular, the Company shall not be required to reward
failure on the part of the Executive (which failure may be inferred from the financial
performance of the Company or its Group Companies) and shall have regard to corporate
governance standards at the Termination Date. The Company may, without limitation,
exercise its reasonable discretion and determine that any Compensation Payment to the
Executive should be phased in monthly or quarterly instalments over a period of no longer
than 12 months from the Termination Date and that any Compensation Payment should be
reduced in accordance with the duty on the part of the Executive to mitigate her loss.
17.6 Where the Company pays the Compensation Payment to the Executive, (or, where the
Compensation Payment as calculated under Schedule 1 is zero and the Executive is owed,
or paid, an amount by any Group Company) the Executive shall be treated as accepting it in
full and final settlement of all claims against the Company, all Group Companies and their
respective employees arising in any jurisdiction and arising out of the Executive's contract of
employment or any other employment with any Group Company or any holding of any office
with the Company or any Group Company or its/their termination and, on receipt of such
Compensation Payment (or such payment from another Group Company as referred to
above), the Executive hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives all such claims.
17.7 The Company shall have the right to suspend the Executive on full pay pending any
investigation into any potential dishonesty, gross misconduct or any other circumstances
which may give rise to a right to the Company to terminate pursuant to Clause 17.1 above.
During any such period of suspension the Company may exclude the Executive from all or
any premises of the Company or any Group Company, may require the Executive to abstain
from engaging in any contact (whether or not initiated by her) which concerns any of the
business affairs of the Company or any Group Company with any customer, client, supplier,
other business connection, employee, director, officer, consultant or agent of the Company
or any Group Company without the prior written consent of the Board, and may suspend or
limit the Executive's access to the Company's IT and communications systems or databases.
17.8 The termination of the Employment shall be without prejudice to any right the Company may
have in respect of any breach by the Executive of any of the provisions of this Agreement
which may have occurred prior to such termination.
17.9 The Executive agrees that (unless the contrary is agreed by the Company in writing) she will
not at any time after the termination of the Employment represent herself as still having any
connection with the Company or any Group Company, save as a former employee for the
purpose of communicating with prospective employers or complying with any applicable
statutory requirements.
18. DIRECTORSHIPS
18.1 The Executive's duties as a director of the Company or any other Group Company are
14
subject to the Articles of Association of the relevant company for the time being.
18.2 The Executive shall, if requested by the Company, forthwith resign in writing from all
directorships, trusteeships and other offices she may hold from time to time with the
Company or any Group Company without compensation for loss of office in the event of:
18.2.1 the termination of her employment; or
18.2.2 either the Company or the Executive serving on the other notice of termination of
the Employment; or
18.2.3 the Company exercising its rights under Clause 17.3.2 above.
18.3 In the event of the Executive failing to comply with her obligations under Clause 18.2 above,
she hereby irrevocably and unconditionally authorises the Company to appoint some person
in her name and on her behalf to sign or execute any documents and/or do all things
necessary to requisite to give immediate effect to such resignations as referred to in Clause
18.2 above.
19. WAIVER OF RIGHTS
The Executive shall have no claim against the Company or any Group Company if the
Employment is terminated by reason of the liquidation of the Company for the purposes of
amalgamation or reconstruction or as part of any arrangement for the amalgamation of the
undertaking of the Company not involving liquidation or for the transfer of the whole or part
of the undertaking of the Company to any of its Group Companies provided that she is offered
re-employment with any concern or undertaking resulting from such amalgamation or
reconstruction or transfer on terms and conditions which, taken as a whole, are not
substantially less favourable than the terms of this Agreement.
20. GRIEVANCE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
20.1 If the Executive has any grievance relating to the Employment, she should raise it with the
Chair of the Board and thereafter (if the matter is not resolved) with the Board. In such a
case the Board will deal with the matter by discussion and majority decision of those present
and voting (but without the Executive being entitled to vote on that issue).
20.2 The Company will follow any appropriate disciplinary procedures as applicable to the level
of seniority of the Executive. If the Executive is dissatisfied with any disciplinary decision
taken in relation to her, she may appeal in writing to the Chair of the Board within 7 days of
that decision. The Executive is subject to the Company's disciplinary rules, which can be
found on the Company's HR Policies and Procedures on the Hub.
21. MISCELLANEOUS
21.1 The various provisions and sub-provisions of this Agreement and the Schedules attached
hereto are severable and if any provision or sub-provision is held to be unenforceable by any
court of competent jurisdiction then such unenforceability shall not affect the enforceability
of the remaining provisions or sub-provisions in this Agreement or Schedules.
21.2 The Executive represents and warrants that she is not prevented by any agreement,
arrangement, contract, understanding, Court Order or otherwise, which in any way directly
or indirectly restricts or prohibits her from fully performing the duties of the Employment, or
any of them, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
21.3 Any notice to be given hereunder may be delivered (a) in the case of the Company by first
class post addressed to its Registered Office for the time being and (b) in the case of the
Executive, either to her personally or by first class post to her last known address.
21.4 Notices served by post shall be deemed served on the second business day after the date
of posting. For the purposes of this Clause 21.4, "business day" means a day on which
banks are open for business in the place of both the posting and the address of the notice.
21.5 There is no collective agreement applicable to the Employment.
22. CONSTRUCTION
15
22.1 The provisions of Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 hereto and any additional terms endorsed in
writing by or on behalf of the parties hereto shall be read and construed as part of this
Agreement and shall be enforceable accordingly.
22.2 The benefit of each agreement and obligation of the Executive under Clauses 14, 15 and
Schedule 2 hereto of this Agreement may be assigned to and enforced by all successors
and assignees for the time being of the Company and its Group Companies and such
agreements and obligations shall operate and remain binding notwithstanding the
termination of this Agreement.
22.3 A person who is not a party to this Agreement shall not have any rights under the Contracts
(Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any term of this Agreement.
23. PRIOR AGREEMENTS
This Agreement cancels and is in substitution for all previous letters of engagement,
agreements and arrangements (whether oral or in writing) relating to the subject-matter
hereof between the Company and the Executive all of which shall be deemed to have been
terminated by mutual consent. This Agreement constitutes the entire terms and conditions
of the Executive's employment and no waiver or modification thereof shall be valid unless in
writing, signed by the parties and only to the extent therein set forth.
24. ENFORCEMENT AND GOVERNING LAW
24.1 This Agreement is governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of England.
24.2 Without prejudice to any rights of either party to seek injunctive or declaratory relief in the
Courts, and without prejudice to the Executive's statutory rights, the Company and the
Executive agree that on the occurrence of any dispute concerning interpretation or
application of this Agreement, the help of the Centre for Dispute Resolution (CEDR) will be
sought to resolve the dispute in private by means of alternative dispute resolution (ADR).
Either party may refer the matter to CEDR in which event both parties will fully co-operate in
the process which CEDR may propose. There shall be no obligation on either party to
continue to participate in the ADR process after 90 days from the date of referral of the
dispute to CEDR.
24.3 The parties agree that if a dispute cannot be resolved pursuant to Clause 24.2 above, the
parties agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
25. DATA PROTECTION
25.1 The Executive acknowledges that the Company and relevant Group Companies will collect,
use, store, transfer and otherwise process the Executive's personal data (and, where
relevant, that of the Executive's emergency contacts and, where applicable, dependants)
including providing personal data to third parties and transferring personal data within and
outside the European Economic Area, in accordance with applicable data protection
regulations. Further details relating to the processing of such personal data are set out in the
Company's UK Employee Privacy Notice (which is non-contractual and may be amended
from time to time), which is available from the Company Secretary or can be found on the
Company's HR Policies and Procedures on the Hub.
25.2 The Executive agrees to use all reasonable endeavours to keep the Company informed and
updated of any changes to the Executive's personal data, including, for example any change
in the Executive's home address or other contact details.
25.3 The Executive agrees to familiarise themselves with the Company's UK Employee Privacy
Notice and General Data Privacy Policy in force from time to time, which are available from
the Company Secretary or can be found on the Company's HR Policies and Procedures on
the Hub (and any other relevant policies and procedures relating to data protection in force
from time to time, including any policies that the Company may have in place from time to
time relating to its IT systems, use of such systems and data handling (as set out on the
Company's HR Policies and Procedures on the Hub)) and agrees to act at all times in
accordance with both the spirit and the letter of such policies and procedures when
16
processing the personal data of others during the course of the Executive's employment.
This includes, without limitation, personal data relating to any employee or other worker, job
candidate, customer, client, supplier or agent of the Company or any Group Company.
25.4 Failure to comply with the Company's policies (including those mentioned above) may lead
to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.
26. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
26.1 The Executive represents and warrants to the Company that, and acknowledges that in
entering into this Agreement the Company has relied upon prior representations and
warranties by the Executive in the following terms:
26.1.1 he has not (directly or indirectly) misappropriated, or otherwise made any unlawful
use or disclosure of, any Confidential Information and/or intellectual property
belonging to or relating to the business of any other person (including, for the
avoidance of doubt, her previous employer(s)) and will not do so whether prior to
the commencement of her employment under this Agreement or otherwise;
26.1.2 he is not prohibited by law from being a director;
26.1.3 he is and remains legally entitled to work in the United Kingdom without any
additional approvals and she will notify the Company immediately if she ceases to
be so entitled at any time during her employment with the Company;
26.1.4 he is not and has not been subject to any prohibition, censure, criticism or
disciplinary sanction by any professional, regulatory or other body or authority
which would prevent her from performing any duties under this Agreement or
undermine the confidence of the Board in her employment by the Company; and
26.1.5 any curriculum vitae and other details provided by the Executive to the Company
or a third party in relation to her appointment to this role by the Company (if any)
are complete and accurate and the Executive has provided the Company with
genuine copies of certificates of all her academic and professional qualifications.
The Executive shall indemnify the Company against all claims, liabilities, losses, costs, and
expenses which the Company may suffer or incur or which may be made against the
Company arising out of, or in respect of, any breach of the warranties and representations
in this Clause 26.
27. REFERENCES
If the Company is asked to provide any reference in respect of the Executive it shall be under
no obligation to do so, save as required by law or by any professional, statutory or regulatory
body or authority. If it does agree to provide a reference it shall use reasonable efforts to
ensure that any reference is accurate but shall not in the absence of malice on the part of
the Company be liable to the Executive for any error in or omission from any such reference.
28. COUNTERPARTS
The Agreement is subject to contract until it is dated and signed by all of the parties, at which
point it shall be treated as an agreement binding on the parties, notwithstanding that it may
still be labelled 'Draft ' or 'Subject to Contract'. This Agreement may be executed in any
number of counterparts each in the like form, all of which taken together shall constitute one
and the same document and any party may execute this Agreement by signing and dating
any one or more of such counterparts.
17
IN WITNESS whereof the parties hereto have set their hands the day and year written below.
/s/ Tadeu Marroco
SIGNED: .................................
TADEU MARROCO
For and on behalf of the Company
1/11/2023
DATED: ………………………
/s/ Soraya Benchikh
SIGNED: .................................
SORAYA BENCHIKH
1/11/2023
DATED: ………………………
18
SCHEDULE 1
DEFINITIONS
In this Agreement, the following expressions shall have the following meanings:
"Board" the Board of Directors of the Company from time to time or a duly
constituted committee of the Board of Directors;
"Companies Act 2006" the Companies Act 2006, as in force from time to time;
"Compensation Payment" means a sum calculated as follows:
𝐴 𝑥 £𝐵
minus C (less any deductions which the Company may be
365
required to make including in respect of income tax and employee's
National Insurance contributions)
(a) "A" is the number of days of the Executive's notice of
termination of employment (i) to which she is entitled under
Clause 2.2 above of this Agreement, or (ii) where the
notice period has already commenced, the number of days
of such notice period which remain outstanding.
(b) "B" is the aggregate of (i) the Executive's annual base
salary referred to in Clause 6.1 on the date when she is
notified in writing by the Company that it will be making her
a Compensation Payment, (ii) a cash sum equal to the cost
to the Company of providing to the Executive the benefits
referred to in Clause 10.2 above provided that the
Company shall have the option to continue to provide one
or more of such benefits to the Executive in lieu of giving a
cash sum in respect of such benefit so provided.
(c) "C" is any amount payable to or paid to the Executive on
termination of employment with any Group Company;
"Confidential Information" means all and any information, whether or not recorded, of the
Company or of any Group Company which the Executive (or,
where the context so requires, another person) has obtained by
virtue of her employment or engagement and which the Company
or any Group Company regards as confidential or in respect of
which the Company or any Group Company is bound by an
obligation of confidence to a third party, including:
(A) all and any information relating to business methods,
corporate plans, future business strategy, management
systems, finances, and maturing new business
opportunities;
(B) all and any information relating to research or development
projects or both;
(C) all and any information concerning the curriculum vitae,
remuneration details, work-related experience, attributes
and other personal information concerning those employed
or engaged by the Company or any Group Company;
(D) all and any information relating to marketing or sales of any
past present or future product or service of the Company or
any Group Company including sales targets and statistics,
19
market share and pricing statistics, marketing surveys and
strategies, marketing research reports, sales techniques,
price lists, mark-ups, discounts, rebates, tenders,
advertising and promotional material, credit and payment
policies and procedures, and lists and details of customers,
prospective customers, suppliers and prospective suppliers
including their identities, personnel, business requirements
and contractual negotiations and arrangements with the
Company or any Group Company;
(E) all and any trade secrets, secret formulae, processes,
inventions, design, know-how, technical specification and
other technical information in relation to the creation,
production or supply of any past, present or future product
or service of the Company or any Group Company,
including all and any information relating to the working of
any product, process, invention, improvement or
development carried on or used by the Company or any
Group Company and information concerning the intellectual
property portfolio and strategy of the Company or of any
Group Company;
(F) any information which is a trade secret as defined in
Regulation 2 of the Trade Secrets (Enforcement, etc.)
Regulations 2018;
(G) any inside information (as defined in Article 7 of MAR)
but excluding any information which:
(i) is part of the Executive's own stock in trade;
(ii) is readily ascertainable to persons not connected
with the Company or any Group Company without
significant expenditure of labour, skill or money; or
(iii) which becomes available to the public generally
other than by reason of a breach by the Executive
of her obligations under this Agreement;
“Directors Remuneration shall have the meaning given to it in Clause 6.6
Policy”
"Effective Date" means 1st May 2024;
"Employment" means the Executive's employment in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this Agreement;
"Group Company" means the Company, any holding company of the Company and
any subsidiary of the Company or of any such holding company
(with holding company and subsidiary having the meanings
ascribed to them by the Companies Act 2006);
“Hub” means the BAT internal sharepoint site;
"Immediate Family" shall include husband, wife, common law spouse, civil partner,
children, brothers, sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles, parents,
grandparents, and the aforesaid relatives by marriage;
"Intellectual Property patents, utility models, rights to inventions (other than Inventions),
Rights" copyright and neighbouring and related rights, moral rights, trade
20
marks and service marks, business names and domain names,
rights in get-up and trade dress, goodwill and the right to sue for
passing off or unfair competition, rights in designs, rights in
computer software, database rights, rights to use, and protect the
confidentiality of, Confidential Information (including know-how
and trade secrets) and all other intellectual property rights, in each
case whether registered or unregistered and including all
applications and rights to apply for and be granted, renewals or
extensions of, and rights to claim priority from, such rights and all
similar or equivalent rights or forms of protection which subsist or
will subsist now or in the future in any part of the world;
"JSE Listings the Listings Requirements published by the JSE Limited, as may
Requirements" be applicable from time-to-time in respect of the secondary listing
of the Company's ordinary shares on the JSE Limited in South
Africa;
"Listed Company" any company which is quoted on any Recognised Investment
Exchange;
"LPDT Rules" the Listing Rules, Prospectus Rules, Disclosure Guidance and
Transparency Rules issued by the UK Listing Authority;
"MAR" the Market Abuse Regulation (2014/596/EU) and its implementing
and delegated regulations;
"Persons Closely has the meaning attributed to it by Article 3(1)(26) of MAR;
Associated"
"Recognised Investment has the meaning given to it by section 285 of the Financial Services
Exchange" and Markets Act 2000;
"Remuneration the remuneration committee of the Board from time to time;
Committee"
"Securities" any shares, debentures (whether or not secured), warrants or
options to purchase any shares or debentures;
"Termination Date" shall mean the date upon which the Executive's employment with
the Company terminates;
"Working Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day which is
generally recognised as a public holiday in England.
In this Agreement, unless otherwise stated, a reference to the employment of the Executive is to her
employment by the Company under this Agreement and shall include any period of garden leave
pursuant to Clause 17.3.2 or suspension pursuant to Clause 17.7.
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) the contents page and headings and bold type face inserted in this Agreement are inserted
for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement;
(b) references to clauses and sub-clauses are to clauses and sub-clauses of this Agreement;
(c) references to this Agreement include this Agreement as amended or supplemented in
accordance with its terms;
(d) references to any schedules are to the schedules to this Agreement which for the avoidance
of doubt are incorporated into and form part of the terms of this Agreement;
(e) references to writing shall include any modes of reproducing words in any legible form and
shall include e-mail except where expressly stated otherwise;
21
(f) references to "includes" or "including" shall mean "includes without limitation" or "including
without limitation";
(g) words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and a reference to any gender
includes a reference to all genders or, where appropriate, is to be read as a reference to the
opposite gender;
(h) a reference to a person shall include a reference to a firm, a body corporate, an
unincorporated association or a partnership;
(i) a reference to an enactment, EU instrument or statutory provision shall include a reference
to any subordinate legislation made under the relevant enactment, EU instrument or statutory
provision and is a reference to that enactment, EU instrument, statutory provision or
subordinate legislation as from time to time amended, modified, incorporated or reproduced
and to any enactment, EU instrument, statutory provision or subordinate legislation that from
time to time (with or without modifications) re-enacts, replaces, consolidates, incorporates or
reproduces it.
22
SCHEDULE 2
POST TERMINATION COVENANTS
1. DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Schedule 2, the following words and cognate expressions shall have
the meanings set out below:
1.1 "Board" shall have the meaning set out in the Agreement attached hereto, and shall include
its successors in title and assigns (as applicable).
1.2 "Company" shall have the meaning set out in the Agreement attached hereto, and shall
include its successors in title and assigns (as applicable).
1.3 "Customer" shall mean any person, firm, company or other organisation whatsoever to
whom the Company has supplied goods or services, other than in a retail capacity, during
any part of the 12 months immediately preceding the Termination Date.
1.4 "Group Company" shall have the meaning set out in the Agreement attached hereto, and
shall include its successors in title and assigns (as applicable).
1.5 "Prohibited Area" means:
1.5.1 England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland;
1.5.2 any other country in the world where, on the Termination Date, the Company
develops, sells, supplies, manufactures or researches its products or services or
where the Company is intending within 3 months following the Termination Date to
develop, sell, supply or manufacture its products or services and in respect of which
the Executive has been responsible (whether alone or jointly with others),
concerned or active on behalf of the Company during any part of the 12 months
immediately preceding the Termination Date.
1.6 "Prospective Customer" shall mean any person, firm, company or other organisation with
whom the Company has had any negotiations or material discussions regarding the possible
supply of goods or services by the Company other than in a retail capacity during any part of
the 12 months immediately preceding the Termination Date.
1.7 The "Relevant Period" shall mean the lesser of:
1.7.1 the 12 months immediately following the Termination Date;
1.7.2 the period specified in paragraph 1.7.1 above less the number of days on which
the Executive has been required by the Company (pursuant to Clause 17.3.2 of the
Agreement) both not to attend at work and not to perform any duties of
employment.
1.8 "Restricted Employee" means any person who was employed by (i) the Company or (ii) any
Group Company, for at least 3 months prior to and on the Termination Date and:
1.8.1 with whom the Executive had material contact or dealings in performing her duties
of her employment; or
1.8.2 who had material contact with customers or suppliers of the Company in performing
his or her duties of employment with the Company or any Group Company (as
applicable); and
1.8.3 who was a member of the management team of the Company or any Group
Company (as applicable); or
1.8.4 who was a member of the Research & Development Department of the Company
or any Group Company (as applicable).
1.9 "Supplier" means any person, company, business entity or other organisation whatsoever
who:
1.9.1 has supplied goods or services to the Company during any part of the 12 months
immediately preceding the Termination Date; or
23
1.9.2 has agreed prior to the Termination Date to supply goods or services to the
Company to commence at any time in the 12 months following the Termination
Date; or
1.9.3 as at the Termination Date, supplies goods or services to the Company under an
exclusive contract or arrangement between that Supplier and the Company.
1.10 "Termination Date" shall have the meaning set out in the Agreement hereto.
2. NON-COMPETITION
The Executive hereby agrees that she shall not (without the consent in writing of the Board)
for the Relevant Period within the Prohibited Area and whether on her own behalf or in
conjunction with or on behalf or any other person, firm, company or other organisation (and
whether as an employee, director, principal, agent, consultant or in any other capacity
whatsoever) in competition with the Company be directly or indirectly (i) employed or
engaged in, or (ii) perform services in respect of, or (iii) have any financial interest in, or (iv)
be otherwise concerned with:-
2.1 the research into, development, manufacture, supply or marketing of any product which is of
the same or similar type to any product researched, or developed, or manufactured, or
supplied, or marketed by the Company during the 12 months immediately preceding the
Termination Date;
2.2 the research into, development, manufacture, supply or marketing of any product which is to
the same or a similar type to any product which the Company was (as at the Termination
Date) proposing to launch within 12 months of the Termination Date;
2.3 the development or provision of any services (including but not limited to technical and
product support, or consultancy or customer services) which are of the same or similar type
to any services provided by the Company during the 12 months immediately preceding the
Termination Date;
2.4 the development or provision of any services (including but not limited to technical and
product support or consultancy or customer services) which are of the same or similar type
to any services which the Company was (as at the Termination Date) proposing to launch
within 12 months of the Termination Date.
PROVIDED ALWAYS that the provision of this paragraph 2 shall apply only in respect of
products or services with which the Executive was either personally concerned or for which
she was responsible whilst employed by the Company during the 12 months immediately
preceding the Termination Date.
The provisions of this paragraph 2 shall not, at any time following the Termination Date,
prevent the Executive (i) from for investment purposes an interest (as defined in S.820 – 825
of the Companies Act 2006) of up to 5% in nominal value or (in the case of Securities not
having any nominal value) in number or class of Securities, in any class of Securities in a
Listed Company and which are not the Securities of any company which competes or
proposes to complete with the business of the Company or any Group Company (and for
these purposes, the references to Securities held by the Executive shall include Securities
held or beneficially held by the Executive's Immediate Family) or (ii) from being employed in,
or providing services to, any part of a business (which does not fall within the scope of
paragraphs 2.1 to 2.4 above) being operated by another company, firm of other business
entity, even though another part of the business of such company, firm or other business
entity (with which the Executive is not directly or indirectly concerned or employed) does fall
within the scope of paragraphs 2.1 to 2.4 above.
3. NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS
The Executive hereby agrees that she shall not for the Relevant Period whether on her own
behalf or in conjunction with or on behalf of any person, company, business entity or other
organisation (and whether as an employee, director, principal, agent, consultant or in any
other capacity whatsoever), directly or indirectly (i) solicit or, (ii) assist in soliciting, or (iii)
accept, or (iv) facilitate the acceptance of, or (v) deal with, in competition with the Company,
24
the custom or business of any Customer or Prospective Customer:-
3.1 with whom the Executive has had material contact or dealings on behalf of the Company
during the 12 months immediately preceding the Termination Date; or
3.2 for whom the Executive was, in a client management capacity on behalf of the Company,
directly responsible (on her own or in conjunction with other individuals) during the 12 months
immediately preceding the Termination Date.
4. NON-SOLICITATION OF RESTRICTED EMPLOYEES
The Executive hereby agrees that she will not for the Relevant Period either on her own
behalf or in conjunction with or on behalf of any other person, company, business entity, or
other organisation (and whether as an employee, principal, agent, consultant or in any other
capacity whatsoever), directly or indirectly:
4.1 (i)induce, or (ii) solicit, or (iii) entice or (iv) procure, any person who is a senior employee to
leave the Company's or any Group Company's employment (as applicable) where that
person is a Restricted Employee on the Termination Date;
4.2 be personally involved to a material extent in (i) accepting into employment or (ii) otherwise
engaging or using the services of, any person who is a Restricted Employee on the
Termination Date.
5. INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPLIERS
The Executive hereby agrees that she shall not for the Relevant Period, in relation to any
contract or arrangement which the Company has with any Supplier for the exclusive or
preferential supply of goods or services to the Company and/or to its Group Companies, for
the duration of such contract or arrangement, whether on her own behalf or in conjunction
with or on behalf of any person, company, business entity or other organisation, (and whether
as an employee, director, agent, principal, consultant or in any other capacity whatsoever),
directly or indirectly:
5.1 interfere with the supply of goods or services to the Company from any Supplier;
5.2 induce any Supplier of goods or services to the Company to cease or decline to supply such
goods or services in the future.
6. NON-DISPARAGEMENT
6.1 Save for a protected disclosure within the meaning of Part IVA (Protected Disclosures) of the
Employment Rights Act 1996 (as amended from time to time), a report of an offence to a law
enforcement agency, as part of co-operating with a criminal investigation or prosecution, or
as required by law or the regulations of any statutory or regulatory authority, the Executive
shall not during her employment or after the Termination Date make, publish or cause to be
made or published any statement or remark which is likely or intended to harm the business
or reputation of the Company or any of its Group Companies or any current or former officer,
employee, consultant or agent of any such company.
7. GROUP COMPANIES
7.1 The provisions of paragraphs 7.2 and 7.3 below shall only apply in respect of those Group
Companies (i) to whom the Executive gave her services, or (ii) for whom she was
responsible, or (iii) with whom she was otherwise concerned, in the 12 months immediately
preceding the Termination Date.
7.2 Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in this Schedule 2 shall apply as though references to the "Group
Company" were substituted for references to the "Company". The obligations undertaken
by the Executive pursuant to this Schedule 2 shall, with respect to each Group Company,
constitute a separate and distinct covenant and the invalidity or unenforceability of any such
covenant shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the covenants in favour of the
Company or any other Group Company.
7.3 In relation to each Group Company referred to in paragraphs 7.1 and 7.2 above, the
25
Company contracts as trustee and agent for the benefit of each such Group Company. The
Executive agrees that, if required to do so by the Company, she will enter into covenants in
the same terms as those set out in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 hereof directly with all or any
of such Group Companies, mutatis mutandis. If the Executive fails, within 7 days of receiving
such a request from the Company, to sign the necessary documents to give effect to the
foregoing, the Company shall be entitled, and is hereby irrevocably and unconditionally
authorised by the Executive, to execute all such documents as are required to give effect to
the foregoing, on her behalf.
26
Exhibit 11.2
Exhibit 11.2
British American Tobacco
Code for Share Dealing
Edition Date: 30 January 2025
Company Secretarial
& Legal Affairs
1
Code for Share Dealing
Contents
SECTION 2. CLEARANCE TO DEAL 6
SECTION 3. TYPES OF DEALING 7
SECTION 4. CLEARANCE PROCEDURE 11
SECTION 5. GLOSSARY 12
2
Code for Share Dealing
SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY OF THE REQUIREMENTS
PURPOSE OF THE CODE
The purpose of the Code for Share Dealing (the Code) is to ensure that anyone subject to the Code
does not abuse, and does not place themselves under suspicion of abusing, any information about
British American Tobacco p.l.c. (BAT or the Company) and its subsidiaries (together the Group)
which is not available to other investors.
To that end, the Code governs your ability to deal in securities of BAT. You should pay particular
attention if you plan to:
• buy, sell or transfer BAT securities (including but not limited to shares, ADRs, options and
publicly traded bonds issued or guaranteed by BAT);
• join or leave any of the Group’s employee share plans;
• exercise share options, including under any of the Group’s employee share plans;
• stop, start or change your monthly contributions to the UK Share Incentive Plan (SIP);
• enter into or leave any dividend re-investment plan (DRIP);
• change your dividend election to receiving cash or receiving shares; or
• gift shares or receive gifted shares.
A more comprehensive list of what constitutes “dealing” can be found in the Glossary.
The Code ensures that you and the Company comply with the regulatory obligations under the UK
Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), and all relevant assimilated laws applicable in the United
Kingdom. The rules can be complex, so it’s important that you read and understand the relevant
sections of the policy, key terms, and their meanings. Please contact one of the Group Company
Secretarial team members (contact details on the next page) if you have any questions or need
further help.
Please familiarise yourself with the Glossary of definitions on page 12 as this will assist your
understanding of the Code.
WHO DOES THE CODE APPLY TO?
The Code applies to all Directors, employees, contractors and consultants of the BAT Group,
including BATIF, and governs your ability to deal in securities of BAT.
Anyone subject to the Code is expected to deal in securities of BAT in a responsible manner and
should refrain from speculative trading; trading of a short-term nature; and any other dealing in
securities or financial instruments of BAT in a manner that may present a reputational risk to BAT or
the Group.
PROHIBITION ON DEALING IN BAT SECURITIES
You might receive Inside Information or confidential non-public information because of the nature
of your work, from being involved in a transaction, from looking at a document you are printing for
another person or by overhearing a conversation in the lift.
You must not deal in any BAT securities if you are in possession of Inside Information about the
Group. You must also not advise, recommend, encourage or induce someone else to deal in BAT
securities at that time – even if you will not profit from such dealing.
Additionally, you must not disclose Inside Information or confidential non-public information to an
unauthorised person within or outside the Group (including, for example, family members).
If you engaged in any of the activities above you will be guilty of the criminal offence of insider
dealing (Insider Dealing) and will have also committed one of the civil offences of market abuse.
The prohibition on Insider Dealing is not limited to BAT securities. If you are in possession of, or have
access to, Inside Information relating to any third party (including, but not limited to, BAT's
customers, suppliers, contractors, affiliates or business parties), you must not participate in the
activities above in relation to that third party or the securities of that third party.
If you are in doubt about whether you possess, or have access to, Inside Information, you must
refrain from trading in BAT securities and contact one of the Group Company Secretarial team
members to clarify before commencing with any Dealing.
3
Code for Share Dealing
Persons falling into any of the five categories specified below must always seek permission to
deal.
Share Options and Derivatives: dealing in share options (except through a BAT employee share
scheme) and derivatives, relating to underlying securities of BAT, are strictly prohibited by persons
falling into any of the five categories below. Any such dealing requests will be rejected.
Please refer to Section 3 of the Code for a list of common dealings which require clearance.
The Clearance Procedure and members of the Clearance Panel are detailed in Section 4.
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS WHO NEED TO SEEK PERMISSION TO DEAL
You will be required to seek permission to deal (also known as clearance to deal), if you fall within
one of the below categories:
• A Permanent Insider
o The Chair of BAT; and
o Executive Director(s) of BAT.
• A Person Discharging Managerial Responsibilities (PDMR)
o Permanent Insiders (see above);
o A Non-Executive Director of BAT; and
o A member of the BAT Management Board.
o In addition, Persons Closely Associated (PCAs) with PDMRs are also required to
seek clearance.
• A Permanent Restricted Person: A person who, in carrying out their role, has regular
access to information which is considered confidential in relation to the day-to-day
business of the BAT Group, including BATIF:
o A PDMR (see above);
o Direct reports and PAs of a PDMR;
o A Director of BATIF;
o The CoSec team; and
o Other senior individuals deemed to have regular access to Group Confidential
Information.
• A Temporary Restricted Person: A person who, in carrying out their role, has temporary
and/or occasional access to information which is considered confidential in relation to the
day-to-day business of BAT or BATIF:
o A person working on the Group’s Half Year or Full Year results;
o Global Leadership Meeting (GLM) attendees; and
o A person on a Group Confidential List.
A person is a Temporary Restricted Person for such periods as they are notified and
should seek clearance during those times.
• A Project Insider: A person who, because of a specific project, has access to “Inside
Information” in respect of BAT or BATIF. This is likely to be due to working on a significant
Group project, such as a significant M&A transaction. A person is a Project Insider for the
duration of the specific project unless otherwise notified and should seek clearance
during those times.
If you are not in possession of Inside Information and do not fall within any of the above categories,
then you are free to deal without seeking clearance.
If you are in any doubt as to whether you fall into one of the above categories, please contact a
member of the Group Company Secretarial team (details are set out below) for guidance.
4
Code for Share Dealing
NOTIFICATIONS
You will be notified if you fall within any one of the above categories, and if your category status
changes. It is possible to fall within more than one category and if this is the case, the more
restrictive provisions will apply. If you haven’t been notified but think you should be, please contact
a member of the Group Company Secretarial team (details are set out below).
OPEN AND CLOSED PERIODS
At certain times of the year, dealing in BAT securities by those falling into one of the above
categories is not permitted at all. These are called “Closed Periods”. Details of the start and end of
each Closed Period can be found on the Hub.
POLICY BREACH AND CONSEQUENCES
You must always abide by the terms of the Code. Any Dealing in breach of the Code will be
regarded as a serious disciplinary offence which may lead to the instant dismissal of the individual
concerned. You may also commit a criminal or civil offence.
CHANGING ROLES
If you move out of one of the categories mentioned above as a result of changing roles or reporting
lines within the Group (e.g. no longer directly reporting to a PDMR), you are usually free to deal
without seeking clearance. However, if the move happens during a Closed Period, you will continue
to fall within that category and therefore be prohibited from Dealing until the end of the Closed
Period.
LEAVING BAT
If you leave BAT, you will no longer be bound by the Code unless:
• BAT is in a Closed Period when you leave BAT. You will continue to be bound by the Code
until the end of the Closed Period;
• You are in possession of Inside Information when you leave BAT. You will continue to be
bound by the Code until you are no longer in possession of the Inside Information; or
• You are advised by the Group Company Secretarial team that you will still be bound by the
Code after you have left BAT. The Group Company Secretarial team will advise you when
you will no longer be bound by the Code.
FURTHER HELP
If you require further support or are in any doubt as to the interpretation and application of this
Code to you, please consult any of the following members of the Group Company Secretarial team
in Globe House:
• Group Company Secretary – Caroline Ferland (Caroline_Ferland@bat.com)
• Deputy Company Secretary – Claire Dhokia (Claire_Dhokia@bat.com)
• Senior Assistant Company Secretary – Nancy Jiang (Nancy_Jiang@bat.com)
5
Code for Share Dealing
SECTION 2. CLEARANCE TO DEAL
You will be required to seek permission to deal (also known as clearance to deal) if you fall within one of the following categories.
Can I Deal Without
I am: Will my application to obtain Clearance to Deal be approved?
Clearance?
You will only get clearance to deal if:
• You do not have access to Inside Information (you will be notified if we believe you do have
A Permanent
access to such information); and
Insider
• Unless your circumstances are exceptional*, BAT is in an Open Period.
Additional obligations for Permanent Insiders, PDMRs and their Persons Closely Associated (PCA):
• You must provide CoSec with details of all your PCA(s) and you are responsible for seeking
A PDMR (including No. All active clearance on behalf of your PCA(s).
on behalf of their dealing requires • All Dealings/transactions placed by you or your PCA(s) must be notified to the Company
PCAs) clearance. Secretary within 24 hours of placing the dealing/transaction instruction.
Some automated
dealings are covered You will only get clearance to deal if:
A Permanent or by bulk clearance^.
Temporary See Section 3 for a • You do not have access to Inside Information (you will be notified if we believe you do have
Restricted Person guide to the types of access to such information); and
dealing covered. See • Unless your circumstances are exceptional*, BAT is in an Open Period.
Section 4 for the
clearance procedure.
You are unlikely to receive clearance to deal.
You may get clearance to Deal if you are Dealing in securities in good faith (i.e. acting genuinely):
• as the result of an order placed or an agreement concluded before you had access to Inside
A Project Insider
Information; OR
• to satisfy a legal or regulatory obligation that arose before you had access to Inside Information.
If you require further assistance, please consult one of the Company Secretarial team listed in Section 1.
*Exceptional circumstances: If you are not in possession of Inside Information in relation to BAT and/or BATIF, you may be given clearance to deal during a
Closed Period (i) if you would otherwise suffer undue financial hardship, or (ii) there are other exceptional circumstances which require the immediate sale of
shares, or (iii) the dealing is otherwise permissible under applicable law and regulation. You must notify the Company Secretary if you believe exceptional
circumstances apply to you when you make your application to deal. The Clearance Panel will decide whether those circumstances are exceptional and whether
you can deal.
^Bulk clearance: combined applications submitted by Group Reward, typically related to the grant or vesting of BAT shares under a Group employee share
scheme.
6
Code for Share Dealing
SECTION 3. TYPES OF DEALING
This schedule of transactions is not an exclusive list but is intended to cover the most likely share dealing circumstances requiring clearance.
This section of the guidance should be read as a whole as potential transactions may cover one or more dealing scenarios. If you require further
assistance, please contact one of the Group Company Secretarial team (contact details are listed in Section 1).
Persons who are designated as Permanent Insiders, PDMRs, or their PCA(s) are nearly always required to seek permission and to obtain
clearance to deal under the Code before trading. Permanent Insiders, PDMRs and their PCAs are required to notify the Company Secretary of
any transactions within 24 hours of the dealing being completed. This includes any transactions for which clearance to deal is not required.
PART A: COMMON DEALINGS OUTSIDE OF A BAT EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEME REQUIRING CLEARANCE
Permanent Temporary
Project Permanent
Purchase or sale of BAT Securities (including shares and ADRs) Restricted Restricted PDMR
Insider Insider
Person Person
Own Name: purchase or sale of shares Y Y Y Y Y
Nominee and/or Brokerage Account: purchase or sale of shares Y Y Y Y Y
Permanent Temporary
Project Permanent
Transfer of BAT Securities (including shares and ADRs) Restricted Restricted PDMR
Insider Insider
Person Person
Transfer resulting in change in beneficial interest
Y Y Y Y Y
e.g. transfer to spouse; transfer to spouse’s nominee/brokerage account/ISA
Transfer with no change in beneficial interest
N N N Y Y
e.g. transfer between personal nominee/brokerage account/ISA
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) relating to BAT Securities held outside Permanent Temporary
Project Permanent
of EquatePlus Restricted Restricted PDMR
Insider Insider
Refer to Plan Conditions in Section 9. Person Person
Initial application to join DRIP / re-starting DRIP Y Y Y Y Y
On-going automatic reinvestment of dividends N N N N N
Stop DRIP (i.e. switch to cash dividends) Y Y Y Y Y
Permanent Temporary
Individual Savings Account (ISA) (e.g. a Self-Select ISA) Project Permanent
Restricted Restricted PDMR
Refer to Plan Conditions in Section 9. Insider Insider
Person Person
Initial application to open ISA Y Y Y Y Y
Close of ISA Y Y Y Y Y
Note: approval required prior to joining a dividend reinvestment plan (if applicable), please refer to DRIP section above.
7
Code for Share Dealing
Collective investment undertaking which may contain BAT Securities or Permanent Temporary
Project Permanent
BATIF bonds but only where those securities do not exceed 20% of the Restricted Restricted PDMR
Insider Insider
assets held by that collective investment undertaking Person Person
Initial application to join N N N N N
Termination of participation N N N N N
Note: approval required prior to joining a dividend reinvestment plan (if applicable), please refer to DRIP section above.
Permanent Temporary
Project Permanent
Use of BAT Shares/ADRs as security Restricted Restricted PDMR*
Insider Insider*
Person Person
Using BAT Shares/ADRs as security or otherwise granting a charge, lien or
Y Y Y Y Y
other encumbrance over the BAT Securities
* Please refer to the 2022 Share Pledging Policy for further information.
Permanent Temporary
Project Permanent
Other Restricted Restricted PDMR
Insider Insider
Person Person
Any other transaction or the exercise of any power or discretion effecting
Y Y Y Y Y
a change in the ownership of your beneficial interest in BAT Securities
PART B: COMMON DEALINGS ASSOCIATED WITH BAT EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
This section covers common transactions related to participation in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme (DSBS), Restricted Share Plan (RSP),
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP/PSP), UK Sharesave, UK SIP (Free Shares and Partnership Share Scheme), and the International Share Reward
Scheme (ISRS). For certain transactions, bulk clearance will be requested on your behalf by Group Reward and no action will be required from
you. for all other transactions you must obtain clearance to Deal in accordance with the Code. If you require further assistance, please consult
one of the Group Company Secretarial team (contact details are listed in Section 1).
Permanent Temporary
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme (DSBS); Restricted Share Plan (RSP); Project Permanent
Restricted Restricted PDMR
International Share Reward Scheme (ISRS) Insider Insider
Person Person
At grant and at vesting
These events are subject to a bulk clearance, no individual clearance requests N N N N N
are required
Retention of shares after vesting (if applicable)
Retained shares will be moved into your EquatePlus SPA. This transaction will N N N N N
be covered by bulk clearance~
~Note: future SPA transactions require clearance, please see SPA section below.
8
Code for Share Dealing
Permanent Temporary
Project Permanent
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP/PSP) Restricted Restricted PDMR
Insider Insider
Person Person
Awards granted after 1 Jan 2020: At grant and at vesting
These events are subject to a bulk clearance, no individual clearance requests N N N N N
are required
Pre 2020 LTIP: Exercise of options following vesting
Y Y Y Y Y
Including exercise of phantom awards (SARs)
Pre 2020 LTIP: Sale of some or all shares after exercise
Y Y Y Y Y
e.g. sell all shares, sell sufficient shares to meet tax liability
Retention of shares after vesting or exercise (if applicable)
Retained shares will be moved into your EquatePlus SPA. This transaction will N N N N N
be covered by bulk clearance^
^Note: future SPA transactions require clearance, please see SPA section below.
Permanent Temporary
EquatePlus Share Plan Account (SPA) Project Permanent
Restricted Restricted PDMR
Refer to Plan Conditions in Glossary Insider Insider
Person Person
Initial application to join Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
This default event is subject to a bulk clearance, no individual clearance N N N N N
request is required
On-going automatic reinvestment of dividends N N N N N
Stopping DRIP (i.e. switching to cash dividends) Y Y Y Y Y
Re-starting DRIP Y Y Y Y Y
Sale of shares Y Y Y Y Y
Transfer of shares out with no change in beneficial interest
e.g. transfer into own nominee/brokerage account/ISA; transfer into N N N N Y
certificated shares
Permanent Temporary
UK SIP (Partnership Shares), and/or US 401K with Share Purchase element Project Permanent
Restricted Restricted PDMR
Refer to Plan Conditions in Glossary. Insider Insider
Person Person
Initial application to join Y Y Y Y Y
Variation of monthly contribution levels Y Y Y Y Y
On-going automatic monthly purchase of shares N N N N N
Stopping or restarting monthly contributions Y Y Y Y Y
Transfer of shares from scheme (e.g. into EquatePlus SPA)* Y Y Y Y Y
Sale of shares Y Y Y Y Y
On-going automatic reinvestment of dividends on SIP shares N N N N N
*Future SPA transactions require clearance, please see SPA section above. (N/A to US 401K)
9
Code for Share Dealing
Permanent Temporary
UK SIP (Free Shares) Project Permanent
Restricted Restricted PDMR
Refer to Plan Conditions in Glossary. Insider Insider
Person Person
Initial application to join Y Y Y Y Y
On-going annual award of shares N N N N N
Transfer of shares from scheme (e.g. into EquatePlus SPA)* Y Y Y Y Y
Sale of shares Y Y Y Y Y
On-going automatic reinvestment of dividends on SIP shares N N N N N
*Future SPA transactions require clearance, please see SPA section above.
Permanent Temporary
UK Sharesave Scheme Project Permanent
Restricted Restricted PDMR
Refer to Plan Conditions in Glossary. Insider Insider
Person Person
Initial application to join Y Y Y Y Y
Withdrawal from the Scheme & close of account Y Y Y Y Y
Exercise of options or withdraw savings Y Y Y Y Y
Sale of shares after exercise Y Y Y Y Y
Retention of shares after exercise
Retained shares will be moved into your Equateplus SPA and do not require N N N N N
individual clearance requests#
#Note: future SPA transactions require clearance, please see SPA section above.
PART C: DEALINGS BY A PERSON CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH YOU (applies only to Permanent Insiders and PDMRs)
This section sets out the transactions where a Permanent Insider/PDMR’s PCAs need to seek clearance to deal. Permanent Insiders and PDMRs
are responsible for seeking clearance on behalf of their PCAs.
Permanent Insiders and PDMRs must ensure their PCAs notify the Company Secretary of all transactions once the dealing has been completed
and this includes transactions for which clearance to deal is not required.
Transactions by a Person Closely Associated With You (PCA)
Purchase or Sale of Shares/ADRs
Transfer of Shares/ADRs
Joining/Terminating a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Opening/Closing an ISA
Other investment undertaking which may contain BAT Shares or BATIF bonds where those securities do not exceed 20% of the assets held by that
collective investment undertaking
Any other transaction or the exercise of any power or discretion effecting a change in the ownership of a PCA’s beneficial interest in the BAT Shares
Note: clearance to deal will not be granted during a Closed Period unless there are exceptional circumstances – please refer to Section 2 for further details.
10
SECTION 4. CLEARANCE PROCEDURE
PDMRs and their PCAs - please complete and sign the appropriate Share Dealing
Form and send it to the CoSec department (nancy.jiang@bat.com) copying in Group
Company Secretary of BAT, Caroline Ferland (Caroline_Ferland@bat.com)
Other individuals – please submit your request via the InsiderTrack portal
www.batsharedealingcode.com
MEMBER(S) OF THE CLEARANCE PANEL*
The relevant Clearance Panel member(s) will depend on your role:
I am: Clearance Panel member(s)
Chief Executive of BAT (if not present then the Company
The Chair of BAT
Secretary or any other Executive Director)
Chair of BAT (if not present then the Company Secretary or
The Chief Executive or an Executive Director
another Executive Director)^
A Non-Executive Director (other than the Chair) or
An Executive Director of BAT
the Company Secretary
The Company Secretary of BAT or, in his/her absence, a
Other individuals
nominated individual^
Applying to Deal in exceptional circumstances Any Director of BAT^
*All clearance requests are to be sent to the Company Secretary for corporate governance purposes.
^ For the avoidance of doubt, an individual cannot approve his/her own request to deal.
APPROVAL PROCESS
1. Clearance requests for Permanent Insiders, PDMRs and their PCAs should be submitted using the
relevant form which can be found on the Hub. Clearance requests from all other individuals required
by the Code to seek permission do Deal should be submitted to the Company Secretary through the
InsiderTrack portal (a link can be found on the Hub).
2. Permission to Deal will be approved or refused within three Business Days of the request being
submitted. You will be notified of the decision.
3. Where permission to Deal is granted, you must Deal as soon as possible and in any event within 48
hours1 of clearance being granted (or such shorter period as the Clearance Panel may specify), after
which a fresh application to Deal must be made.
4. BAT will maintain a record of all clearance requests and the response of the Clearance Panel.
5. Clearance to Deal will not be given when the Clearance Panel has reason to believe that the proposed
Dealing is in breach of this Code, irrespective of whether BAT is in an Open Period.
6. Permanent Insiders, PDMRs and their PCAs must notify the Company Secretary within 24 hours of
dealing and undertake to provide the Company Secretary with a copy of the trade confirmation
containing the details of the completed transaction.
NOTE: Permission to Deal from the Clearance Panel in accordance with the Code will not, in itself, provide
a defence to prosecution for an offence.
1 Excluding weekends and UK bank holidays
11
SECTION 5. GLOSSARY
When applying the defined terms below to any individual who is a PDMR, a Permanent Restricted Person,
a Temporary Restricted Person, or a Project Insider of BATIF, all references to BAT shall also be taken as
referring to BATIF.
BAT means British American Tobacco p.l.c.
BATIF means B.A.T. International Finance p.l.c.
BAT Group means BAT and its subsidiary undertakings.
Business day means any day which is not a Saturday or Sunday, Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank
holiday in England.
Closed Period means:
• The period from the end of the relevant financial year up to the release of BAT’s full year results
announcement; and
• 30 days immediately before the release of BAT’s half-year results announcement.
• Details of the start and end of each closed period can be found on the Hub.
Dealing includes:
• any acquisition or disposal of, or agreement to acquire or dispose of, or any cancellation of any
agreement to acquire or dispose of, any of the securities of BAT;
• entering into a contract (including a contract for difference) the purpose of which is to secure a profit
or avoid a loss by reference to fluctuations in the price of any of the securities of BAT;
• the grant, acceptance, acquisition, disposal, exercise or discharge of any option (whether for the call,
or put or both) to acquire or dispose of any of the securities of BAT;
• the exercise of phantom options or awards comprising notional shares of BAT granted under BAT’s
executive share schemes;
• entering into, or terminating, assigning or novating any stock lending agreement in respect of the
securities of BAT;
• exercising options, awards or rights under BAT's employee share schemes;
• electing to participate in BAT's employee share schemes or Trading Plan;
• subscriptions to a capital increase or debt instrument issuance in respect of the securities of BAT;
• using as security, or otherwise granting a charge, lien or other encumbrance over the securities of
BAT;
• gifts and donations made or received, including the receipt of BAT securities through an inheritance;
• any transactions made under a life insurance policy, where the policyholder is bound by the terms of
the Code and they bear the investment risk and have the power or discretion to make investment
decisions in relation to the policy. No notification obligation is imposed on the insurance company;
• any transaction, including a transfer for nil consideration, or the exercise of any power or discretion
effecting a change of ownership of a beneficial interest in the securities of BAT;
• any other right or obligation, present or future, conditional or unconditional, to acquire or dispose of
any securities of BAT; and
• any other transaction or the exercise of any power or discretion, effecting a change in the ownership
or beneficial interest in the securities of BAT.
This is a non-exhaustive list. If you are in any doubt as to whether a proposed transaction would be
classified as a dealing, please contact one of the Group Company Secretarial team (contact details are
listed in Section 1) for further guidance.
12
Financial Instruments means:
• transferable securities, which means shares in companies and other securities equivalent to shares in
companies, bonds and other forms of securitised debt which are negotiable on the capital market
and any other securities normally Dealt in giving the right to acquire any such transferable securities
by subscription or exchange or giving rise to a cash settlement excluding instruments of payment;
• units in collective investment undertakings;
• money-market instruments;
• financial-futures contracts, including equivalent cash-settled instruments;
• interest-rate, currency and equity swaps;
• options to acquire or dispose of any instrument falling into these categories, including equivalent
cash-settled instruments (including options on currency and on interest rates);
• derivatives on commodities and for the transfer of credit risk;
• financial contracts for differences;
• tradable emission allowances; or
• any other instrument admitted to trading on a regulated market in the UK, a European Union
member state, or any other state for which a request for admission to trading on such a market has
been made.
Group Confidential Information means information of a precise nature that:
• has not been made public;
• relates, directly or indirectly, to BAT or to its shares or American Depositary Receipts or other financial
instruments of BAT;
• would, if made public, not be likely to have a significant effect on the price of BAT’s shares or
American Depositary Receipts or other financial instruments or on the price of related investments;
and
• has been deemed confidential information by the Disclosure Panel of BAT.
Information would be likely to have a significant effect on price if and only if it is information of a kind
which a reasonable investor would be likely to use as part of the basis of his investment decision.
Group Confidential Lists are lists of people who are involved in such Group level project or matter of a
confidential nature which gives rise to Group Confidential Information.
Such lists are typically set up by the Group Company Secretarial team or a team within the wider Legal
Affairs, and persons on the list will be notified by the list manager.
Group Confidential Lists are not the same as the Restricted Persons list or Project Insider lists. A person on
a Group Confidential List may not discuss that specific project with anyone not on the list, however they
are free to deal in BAT securities subject to seeking clearance. A Group Confidential List may be converted
to a Project Insider List at any time, if this happens impacted individuals will be notified by the Group
Company Secretarial team.
Inside Information means information of a precise nature which:
• has not been made public;
• relates, directly or indirectly, to BAT or to its shares or American Depositary Receipts or other financial
instruments of BAT;
• would, if made public, be likely to have a significant effect on the price of BAT’s shares or American
Depositary Receipts or other financial instruments of BAT or on the price of related investments; and
• has been deemed Inside Information by the Disclosure Panel of BAT.
Information would be likely to have a significant effect on price if and only if it is information of a kind
which a reasonable investor would be likely to use as part of the basis of his investment decision.
13
If you are unsure whether or not you have Inside Information, please contact one of the Group Company
Secretarial team (contact details are listed in Section 1) for advice.
Open Period means any time that is not a Closed Period.
PDMR means a person discharging managerial responsibilities and includes the Chair of BAT, members of
the Main Board of BAT, and members of the Management Board of BAT.
Permanent Insider means the Chair of BAT and Executive Director(s) of BAT.
Persons Closely Associated (PCAs) (only relevant to Permanent Insiders and PDMRs) means:
• Immediate family members: spouse or civil partner and children/stepchildren under 18 years old.
• Close relatives: any relative who, on the date of transaction in question, has shared the same
household as you for at least 12 months.
• Associated companies, trusts or partnerships: any company, trust or partnership in which you or your
PCA has or have an interest (direct or indirect) comprising at least 50% of the equity share capital (or
equivalent) or which carry 50% of the voting rights at a General meeting or Board Meeting (or
equivalent).
• Controlled companies, trusts or partnerships: a company, partnership or trust in which you or your
PCA (by virtue of this definition) is a Director or a senior executive who has power to make
management decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of that company.
• Benefiting companies, trusts or partnerships: a company, partnership or trust which is set up for the
benefit of you or your PCA.
• Equivalent interest companies, trusts or partnerships: a company, partnership or trust the interests of
which are substantially equivalent to those of you or your PCA.
Plan Conditions means the following conditions as may be applicable to dividend/share reinvestment
plans, savings plans, the UK SIP and the UK Sharesave Scheme, together “the Plans”:
1. you cannot enter into the Plan in a Closed Period, unless the Plan involves part payment of
remuneration in the form of securities and is entered into upon commencement of your employment
or, if you are a Non-Executive Director, your appointment to the Board;
2. you cannot carry out the purchase of the securities under the Plan during a Closed Period, unless you
entered into the Plan at a time when BAT was not in a Closed Period and you are irrevocably bound
under the terms of the Plan to carry out a purchase of securities at a fixed point in time which falls in a
Closed Period;
3. you do not cancel or vary the terms of you participation, or carry out sales of securities within the Plan
during a Closed Period.
Project Insider means, a person engaged in relation to any project or other matter of a confidential nature
which the Disclosure Panel of BAT has decided gives rise to Inside Information.
Project Insider Lists are lists of people who have access to Inside Information and must obtain permission
to deal for the duration of the project. You will be notified if you are added to a Project Insider List by the
Group Company Secretarial team.
Project Insider Lists are not the same as the Permanent or Temporary Restricted Persons Lists.
All Project Insider Lists are managed by the Group Company Secretarial team on behalf of the Disclosure
Panel.
Related Investments means, in relation to a financial instrument, an investment whose price or value
depends upon the price or value of the financial instrument.
Restricted Person (Permanent and/or Temporary) means a person who is considered to have access to
sensitive information as part of their daily work. Restricted Persons are recorded on either the Permanent
or Temporary Restricted Persons lists.
14
Restricted Persons (Permanent and/or Temporary) List is a list of people who are not permitted to deal
during Closed Periods and must obtain permission to deal at all other times. You will be notified if you are
added to the Restricted Persons list. Please note that the Restricted Persons list is not the same as Group
Confidential lists and Project Insider lists.
Securities means any publicly traded or quoted BAT securities or any securities that are convertible into
such securities and includes but is not limited to shares, American Depositary Receipts, perpetual bonds
and publicly-traded bonds, and may, where relevant, include notional shares of BAT granted under
phantom option or award arrangements.
Trading Plan means a written plan between a person to whom this Code applies and an independent
third party entered into during an Open Period (subject to obtaining clearance) which sets out a strategy
for the acquisition and/or disposal of securities by a specified person and:
• specifies the amount of securities to be Dealt in and the price at which and the date on which the
securities are to be dealt in; or
• gives discretion to that independent third party to make trading decisions about the amount of
securities to be dealt in and the price at which and the date on which the securities are to be dealt in;
or
• includes a written formula or algorithm, or computer program, for determining the amount of
securities to be dealt and the price at which and the date on which the securities are to be dealt.
Trading Plans include, but are not limited to, a plan falling under Rule 10b5-1 of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). You must seek clearance to deal prior to entering such a plan.
If you are in any doubt as to whether a proposed transaction would be classified as a dealing, please
contact one of the Group Company Secretarial team (contact details are listed in Section 1) for further
guidance.
15
EXHIBIT 12
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
I, Tadeu Marroco, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 20-F of British American Tobacco p.l.c.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the company as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The company’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the company and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the period covered by the annual report that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial
reporting; and
5. The company's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the company's auditors and the audit committee
of the company's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the company's
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the company's internal control over financial reporting.
Signature: /s/ Tadeu Marroco Date: 14 February 2025
Tadeu Marroco
Chief Executive
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
I, Soraya Benchikh, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 20-F of British American Tobacco p.l.c.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the company as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The company’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the company and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the period covered by the annual report that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial
reporting; and
5. The company's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the company's auditors and the audit committee
of the company's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the company's
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the company's internal control over financial reporting.
Signature: /s/ Soraya Benchikh Date: 14 February 2025
Soraya Benchikh
Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT 13
CERTIFICATION UNDER SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
In connection with the Annual Report on Form 20-F (the “Report”) of British American Tobacco p.l.c.,
a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales (the “Company”), for the year ended
December 31, 2024, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof, each
of the undersigned officers certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained
in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
of the Company.
Signature: /s/ Tadeu Marroco Date: 14 February 2025
Tadeu Marroco
Chief Executive
Signature: /s/ Soraya Benchikh Date: 14 February 2025
Soraya Benchikh
Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT 15
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-219440,
333-223678 and 333-237186) on Form S-8 and the registration statements (Nos. 333-265958,
333-265958-01, 333-265958-02, 333-265958-03, 333-265958-04 and 333-265958-05) on Form
F-3 of our report dated February 12, 2025, with respect to the consolidated financial statements
of British American Tobacco p.l.c. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting.
/s/ KPMG LLP
London, United Kingdom
February 14, 2025
